Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What International Accounting Standards (IAS) Bring About to the Financial Statements of Greek Listed Companies? The Case of the Athens Stock Exchange

Spoudai: Journal of Economics and Business, Vol. 57, No. 3, pp. 54-77, September–December 2007

25 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2007 Last revised: 26 Feb 2013

Athanasios Bellas

University of Patras

Kanellos Toudas

National and Kapodistrian University of Athens

Konstantinos Papadatos

University of Patras - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

The aim of the present study is to investigate the repercussions of the accounting changeover from the Greek Accounting Standards (GAS) to the International Accounting Standards (IAS) in relation to the published financial statements of Greek listed companies for the year 2004. The results show that tangible assets, fixed assets, and total liabilities record significantly higher prices under the IAS. Furthermore, it was recorded that, in opposition to the net income after taxes, the book value appears to play a more significant role under the IAS, compared to that under the GAS. There is also evidence that the adjustments of GAS to net income improve incremental value relevance, while the adjustments of GAS to book value do not improve it.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards (IAS), Greek Accounting Standards (GAS), value relevance, incremental value relevance, Accounting Standards, Fair value

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bellas, Athanasios and Toudas, Kanellos and Papadatos, Konstantinos, What International Accounting Standards (IAS) Bring About to the Financial Statements of Greek Listed Companies? The Case of the Athens Stock Exchange (2007). Spoudai: Journal of Economics and Business, Vol. 57, No. 3, pp. 54-77, September–December 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1004459
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
H Al-Basteki
The voluntary Adoption of International Accounting Standards by Bahraini Corporations
Advances in International Accounting , p. 47 - 64 Posted: 1995
R Ball , P Brown
Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Mark H. Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976 Pages: 55 Posted: 11 Apr 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M S El-Gazzar , M P Finn , R Jacob
An Empirical Investigation of Multinational Firms' Compliance with International Accounting Standards
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 239 - 248 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
581
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,113
RANK
107,544
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies