Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption and Accounting Quality: A Review

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2007

Naomi S. Soderstrom

University of Melbourne

Kevin Jialin Sun

St. John's University

Abstract

In 2002, the European Union (EU) Parliament passed a regulation that requires consolidated and simple accounts for all companies listed in the EU to use International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for fiscal years starting after January 1, 2005. This change in accounting systems will have a large impact on the information environment for EU companies. This paper provides a review of the literature on adoption of different GAAPs. We thus provide background and guidance for researchers studying the change in accounting quality following widespread IFRS adoption in the EU. We argue that cross-country differences in accounting quality are likely to remain following IFRS adoption because accounting quality is a function of the firm's overall institutional setting, including the legal and political system of the country in which the firm resides.

Keywords: IFRS, Accounting Quality, Institutional Effects

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G38

Suggested Citation:

Soderstrom, Naomi S. and Sun, Kevin Jialin, IFRS Adoption and Accounting Quality: A Review. European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1008416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
C Abad , J Laffarga , A Garcia-Borbolla , M Larràn , J Pinero , N Garrod
An evaluation of the value-relevance of consolidated versus unconsolidated accounting information: evidence from quoted Spanish firms
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 156 - 77 Posted: 2000
Crossref
D Aboody , M Barth , R Kasznikb
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue 1-3 , p. 149 - 78 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , A Riedl
Market reaction to the IFRS adoption in Europe, Working Paper Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12,031
ABSTRACT VIEWS
43,870
RANK
933
35 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies