Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Management Accounting and Business Strategy: A Loose Coupling?

Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2010; https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/18325911011048772/full/html

Posted: 16 Oct 2009 Last revised: 16 Oct 2009

Lino Cinquini

Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies - Institute of Management

Andrea Tenucci

Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna

Date Written: June 15, 2007

Abstract

Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to investigate whether business strategy influences strategic management accounting (SMA) usage.

Business strategy has been operationalized through strategic pattern, mission and positioning. Design/methodology/approach - The study is based on an internet questionnaire survey of Italian companies. Multiple regression analysis is used to test the impact of strategic variables (pattern, mission and positioning) on SMA usage. Company size is included as control variable.

Findings - Several SMA techniques appear to be used in Italian companies as they are in other countries investigated in different studies. Customer Accounting, Competitive Position Monitoring, Competitor performance appraisal based on published financial statement and Quality Costing represent the most widely used SMA techniques in the Italian sample. From the regression analysis, both defender-type and cost leader-type of strategy are found to be more willing to use SMA techniques addressing cost information.

Research limitations/implications - The issue, common in contingent research, of business strategy definition and operationalization constitutes the main limitation of the paper; in an attempt to restrict its effect, we use three strategic typologies (pattern, mission and positioning) and employ a measurement method used in previous studies. A second issue concerns the definition of SMA techniques. There is no concurred list of SMA techniques in the literature and further discussion is expected in the future.

Originality/value - Firstly, empirical evidence is provided to a field (SMA) where empirical research is needed in order to be comparable with traditional management accounting techniques. Secondly, for the first time in SMA studies, a framework is employed that considers all of the three main strategic variables (pattern, mission and positioning) used in management accounting literature. As a result, the loose coupling between SMA techniques and business strategy typologies indicates (with the possible exception of cost related SMA techniques) that the same SMA technique can support different strategic approaches of the company.

Keywords: Strategic Management Accounting, strategy

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Cinquini, Lino and Tenucci, Andrea, Strategic Management Accounting and Business Strategy: A Loose Coupling? (June 15, 2007). Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2010; https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/18325911011048772/full/html , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1012881
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,934
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies