Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MENA Financial Development: On IFRS and IASB

International Journal of Trade and Global Markets, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 44, 2007

9 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2009

Jamal Ibrahim Haidar

Harvard University

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

This essay presents the case of representing the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region on the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). This representation can play a key role in MENA's financial development. It can give MENA countries the chance to participate in setting up International Financial Reporting Standards that go along with their economic environments rather than just apply what other world regions agree on. This essay starts by explaining the current MENA-IASB relationship. Then, it points to various cultural factors and economic reasons that can be enumerated by the MENA financial experts in case they would like to discuss, with key IASB officials, their demand to be represented. At the end, the essay describes some of the MENA key interests at stake and the positive and negative effects, on the IASB's aims and IFRSs' sustainability, of appointing a MENA or a non-MENA representative on the IASB.

Keywords: IFRS, IASB, MENA, financial development, Middle East and North Africa region, International Accounting Standards Board, International Financial Reporting Standards, cultural factors, economic factors

Suggested Citation:

Haidar, Jamal Ibrahim, MENA Financial Development: On IFRS and IASB (2007). International Journal of Trade and Global Markets, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 44, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1027321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
S Askary
Accounting professionalism-a cultural perspective of developing countries
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 102 - 111 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S J Gray
Towards a Theory of Cultural Influence on the Development of Accounting Systems Internationally, Abacus , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1988-03
Crossref
G Hofstede
Cultures Consequences Posted: 1980
C W Nobes
International Classification of Financial Reporting Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,759
RANK
349,147
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies