Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Response by the Financial Reporting Policy Committee of the Financial Accounting and Reporting Section of the American Accounting Association to the SEC Release: Acceptance from Foreign Private Issuers of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Without Reconciliation to U.S. GAAP

38 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2008

Patrick E. Hopkins

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Christine Botosan

Financial Accounting Standards Board

Mark T Bradshaw

Boston College

Carolyn M. Callahan

University of Louisville - College of Business

Jack T. Ciesielski

R.G. Associates

David B. Farber

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Mark J. Kohlbeck

Florida Atlantic University - School of Accounting

Leslie D. Hodder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Bob Laux

Microsoft Corporation

Thomas L. Stober

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Phillip C. Stocken

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2008

Abstract

The Financial Reporting Policy Committee of the Financial Accounting and Reporting Section of the American Accounting Association responded to the SEC's July 13, 2007 proposal to accept financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from foreign-private issuers without reconciliation to U.S. GAAP (the SEC subsequently voted in favor of the proposal on November 15, 2007). Our commentary summarizes and interprets relevant academic research. Our main findings are that material reconciling items exist that are relevant to U.S. investors, there are differences in the implementation of uniform standards and that compliance to IFRS or U.S. GAAP by foreign firms is a concern, foreign firms benefit from greater access to capital by listing in the U.S. and the U.S. requirements do not make the U.S. market less attractive to foreign firms, U.S. investors tend to prefer U.S. GAAP suggesting that elimination of the reconciliation may discourage U.S. investment in foreign firms, and that U.S. GAAP - IFRS harmonization might improve the functioning of the U.S. capital markets. We conclude that eliminating the reconciliation requirement was premature.

Keywords: International Accounting, US GAAP Reconciliation, Foreign Private Issuers

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G38

Suggested Citation:

Hopkins, Patrick E. and Botosan, Christine and Bradshaw, Mark T and Callahan, Carolyn M. and Ciesielski, Jack T. and Farber, David B. and Kohlbeck, Mark J. and Davis Hodder, Leslie D. and Laux, Bob and Stober, Thomas L. and Stocken, Phillip C. and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, Response by the Financial Reporting Policy Committee of the Financial Accounting and Reporting Section of the American Accounting Association to the SEC Release: Acceptance from Foreign Private Issuers of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Without Reconciliation to U.S. GAAP (January 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1083679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1083679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An exploratory study of the valuation properties of cross-listed firms' IAS and U.S. GAAP earnings and book values
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 107 - 127 Posted: 2002
Crossref
K Baker , R Nofsinger , D Weaver
International cross-listing and visibility
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 37 , p. 495 - 521 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Ball
International financial reporting standards: Pros and cons for investors Posted: 2005
Crossref
Ray Ball , S.P. Kothari , Valeri V. Nikolaev
Econometrics of the Basu Asymmetric Timeliness Coefficient and Accounting Conservatism
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 09-16 Pages: 36 Posted: 13 Jul 2007 Last revised: 19 Feb 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,004
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,805
RANK
52,076
4 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies