Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Voluntary Adoption of Internationally Recognized Accounting Standards and Firm Internal Performance Evaluation

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2008 Last revised: 26 Feb 2009

Joanna S. Wu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Ivy Zhang

University of California, Riverside

Date Written: January 10, 2009

Abstract

A large body of research is devoted to understanding the causes and consequences of firms' adoption of international accounting standards. Thus far, researchers' attention has focused almost exclusively on the informational benefits of the adoption. We extend the existing literature by offering a different, stewardship perspective. We hypothesize that the voluntary adoption of international accounting standards is associated with changes in the firm internal performance evaluation process; in particular, it is associated with increases in the sensitivities of CEO turnover and employee layoffs to accounting earnings. Our results are consistent with these predictions.

Keywords: international accounting standards, performance evaluation, CEO turnover, layoffs

JEL Classification: J20, J30, G34, M41, M44, O52

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Joanna S. and Zhang, Ivy, The Voluntary Adoption of Internationally Recognized Accounting Standards and Firm Internal Performance Evaluation (January 10, 2009). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1086699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1086699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
D Alexander , S Archer
Miller European Accounting Guide Posted: 2001
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standard choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an Economically Efficient System of Public Financial Reporting and Disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,135
RANK
40,557
13 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies