Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects Accounting Standardization in the European Union: First Evidence from the Bank Industry

Posted: 30 Jan 2008 Last revised: 3 Feb 2008

Vera Palea

University of Turin, Italy

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

In this research, the effects of accounting standardization in Europe on the capital market has been investigated by focusing on the bank industry.

In particular, since the main purpose of the European Regulation 1606/2002 is that of fostering an efficient and cost-effective functioning of the capital market, this paper directly relates accounting standardization to the cost of equity.

The adoption of the same accounting standard set within the Community was expected to improve comparability and, in such a way, to reduce firms' differences in the cost of equity.

Contrary to expectations, empirical evidence shows that the adoption of the IAS has led to an increase, instead of a reduction, in the cost of equity.

The explanation that can be advanced for such a result is that while, on the one hand, accounting standardization has eliminated measurement errors in assessing firms' risk, reducing differences in their cost of equity, on the other hand, the IAS/IFRS adoption has improved firms' level of disclosure, allowing investors to better differentiate among firms' risk, hence increasing cost of capital variability.

Keywords: Mandatory accounting changes, Cost of equity capital, International Accounting Standards, Accounting Standardization

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera, The Effects Accounting Standardization in the European Union: First Evidence from the Bank Industry (2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1088720
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
729
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies