Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Accounting Standards and Information Efficiency in the European Stock Market

24 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2008

M. Agostino

affiliation not provided to SSRN

D. Drago

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Damiano Bruno Silipo

University of Calabria

Date Written: January 1, 2008

Abstract

We investigate the market valuation of accounting information in the European banking industry before and after the adoption of IFRS, the latest version of International Accounting Standards (IAS). Building on Ohlson (1995), we apply panel methods to a multiplicative interaction model in which the partial effects of earnings and book value on share prices are conditional on the adoption of IFRS. According to our evidence, the IFRS introduction enhanced the information content of both earnings and book value for more transparent banks. By contrast, less transparent entities did not experience significant increase in the value relevance of book value.

JEL Classification: G12, G21, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Agostino, M. and Drago, D. and Silipo, Damiano Bruno, International Accounting Standards and Information Efficiency in the European Stock Market (January 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1093278 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1093278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Arellano
Panel Data Econometrics Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An exploratory study of the valuation properties of cross-listed firms' IAS and U.S. GAAP earnings and book values
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors Posted: 2005
Crossref
R A Ball , J S Robin , Wu
Incentives versus Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in Four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Joseph Aharony , Ran Barniv , Haim Falk
The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Equity Valuation of Accounting Numbers for Security Investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
691
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,625
RANK
86,069
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies