Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Efficacy of the International Accounting Standards Board at Controlling the Global Accounting Regime

Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 51-62, 2005

Posted: 22 Feb 2008

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

William T. Coolahan

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business

Abstract

The lack of a formal global accounting system is somewhat troubling especially when one considers the significant impact that companies' financial statements have on credit ratings, investments and public perception. The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), which is made up of eight major national standard-setters and other groups, is attempting to enact a set of accounting standards to be applied worldwide. The Board's goal is for these standards to result in financial reports that are more transparent and easily comparable (FM, 2002); this would allow users worldwide to make more informed economic decisions.1 As expected, the Board has encountered some resistance not the least of which stems from its lack of authority and jurisdiction. In addition, many criticize International Accounting Standard 39 (IASB, 2005a) for its recommended treatment of derivatives. The Board is looking into several enforcement options; in the end, nonconforming companies will have to accept the proposed standards or face criticism and loss of investor support. If the Board continues to receive worldwide support, it should continue to grow in strength and efficacy.

Suggested Citation:

Bernardi, Richard A. and Coolahan, William T., The Efficacy of the International Accounting Standards Board at Controlling the Global Accounting Regime. Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 51-62, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1095463
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,318
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies