Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Consequences of Increased Disclosure: Evidence from Cross-Listings of Chinese Firms

Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting, Vol. 19, No. 1, pp. 1-27, 2008

Posted: 9 Apr 2008 Last revised: 24 Jul 2008

Haiyan Zhou

University of Texas - Pan American

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Abstract

In this paper we investigate the impact of cross-listings on information asymmetry risk, the cost of capital and firm value of a group of cross-listed Chinese companies. Our paper is the first to examine the effect of cross-listing on information asymmetry risk. Because cross-listed firms are subject to increased disclosure requirements, increased regulatory scrutiny and increased legal liability, we propose that Chinese cross-listed firms have lower information asymmetry risk, lower cost of capital and higher firm value than their non-cross-listed counterparts. We find in both univariate and multivariate tests that cross-listed firms enjoyed lower information asymmetry risk in the domestic market compared with the non-cross-listed firms. We also find that cross-listed firms have lower cost of capital in the cross-listing market than non-cross-listed firms in the domestic markets. Finally, we find that cross-listed firms are associated with higher firm value as measured by Tobin's Q. These results have implications for international investors and companies seeking cross-listing opportunities.

Keywords: Increased Disclosure, Cross-listing, Information Asymmetry, Cost of Capital, Firm Value

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Haiyan and Sami, Heibatollah, The Economic Consequences of Increased Disclosure: Evidence from Cross-Listings of Chinese Firms. Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting, Vol. 19, No. 1, pp. 1-27, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1117623
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,391
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies