Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Factors Influencing China?S Accounting Reforms and Standards

Posted: 3 Aug 1998

Bing Xiang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology

Abstract

By analyzing the changes in the accounting environment of China during the recent economic reforms, this paper places the development of accounting reforms in China into perspective and assesses the desirability of China?s adopting accounting principles in close conformity with International Accounting Standards (IAS). The recent economic reforms, particularly the enterprise reform, in China have changed the corporate landscape and have profoundly altered the accounting environment. The Chinese accounting profession and government have responded with the enactment of a number of accounting regulations. These regulations have essentially transformed China?s accounting from the traditionally rigid and uniform system into a predominantly Anglo-Saxon approach to financial reporting. Accounting reform in China will be followed by the enactment of 30 detailed accounting standards which will bring China?s accounting practice into further conformity with IAS. However, the paper argues that accounting rules in China should not be formulated to cater to the need of a small number of firms which are already listed (or will be listed) on overseas stock exchanges. Rather, China GAAP should be designed to serve China?s large industrial and commercial enterprises that are characterized by extensive managerial autonomy and an effective separation of ownership and control. These enterprises in China operate in an accounting environment which differs considerably from that which is typically presumed by IAS. China?s accounting environment, both now and in the foreseeable future, is characterized by a lack of independent/professional auditing. Without an independent audit profession, information provided under IAS will be unreliable; therefore, adopting IAS may not be warranted in the specific context of China. The analysis sheds light on the role of IAS in developing and transitional economies with rudimentary auditing and judiciary infrastructure, suggesting the limit of accounting harmonization.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Xiang, Bing, Institutional Factors Influencing China?S Accounting Reforms and Standards. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=112169
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,760
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies