Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship between Cost of Capital and International Accounting Standard for Swiss Companies

43 Pages Posted: 5 May 2008

Jonfilippo Fabiano

University of Lugano

Date Written: November 2006

Abstract

The relationship between disclosure and a firm's cost of capital is an important topic in contemporary accounting theory. Theoretical prediction suggests that greater disclosure should lower the firm's cost of capital trough the reduction of information asymmetries. In this paper I empirically analyze the impact on variables such as bid-ask spread, trading liquidity and return volatility from the adoption of an international accounting standard that is indicated as a choice to increase disclosure to shareholders. The three variables are used as proxy for the asymmetric component of the firm's cost of capital. The hypotheses made are that the adoption of an international accounting standard determines a decrease in the bid-ask spread, an increase in the trading liquidity and a significant impact on the return volatility. For a cross sectional sample of 159 Swiss listed companies, I find a negative and significant association with the bid-ask spread, a positive and significant association with the return volatility and an insignificant association with the trading liquidity from the adoption of an international accounting strategy. The magnitude is such that the firm that adopts an IAS enjoys of an average reduction of more than 45% in the bid-ask spread. This finding persists even after controlling for omitted variables and for simultaneous effect. The findings on trading liquidity are inconsistent with the hypothesis probably because the effect coming from an IAS adoption is hidden from the higher effect coming from the state of economic cycle.

Keywords: Asymmetric Information, Accounting standards, Cost of capital

JEL Classification: G14, G19

Suggested Citation:

Fabiano, Jonfilippo, Relationship between Cost of Capital and International Accounting Standard for Swiss Companies (November 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1127664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1127664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
G Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 90 , p. 629 - 650 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Hollis Ashbaugh
Non-US Firms' Accounting Standard Choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Kurt V Aurer
Der Einfluss des Wechsels vom Rechnungslegungsstandard aus die Risikoparameter von schweizerischen Aktien
Zeitschrift für betriebswirtschaftliche Forschung , p. 129 - 155 Posted: 1998-02
Crossref
Stanley Baiman , Robert E Verrecchia
The Relation among Capital arkets, Financial Disclosure, Production Efficiency, and Insider Trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,083
RANK
187,977
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies