Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Financial Statement Information Proximity and Feedback on Cash Flow Forecasts

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 27, No.1, 2010

42 Pages Posted: 5 May 2008 Last revised: 10 Feb 2010

Frank D. Hodge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Patrick E. Hopkins

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 30, 2008

Abstract

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), in their joint Financial Statement Presentation project, are reconsidering the basic format of financial statements. The Boards' preliminary discussions related to this joint project indicate that they intend to modify the required financial statements to increase the proximity of performance-related information for each reported period, but also to reduce the number of reported periods. We provide evidence related to each of these potential changes by investigating the effects of financial-statement information proximity and the number of periods of reported performance on investors' ability to learn the forecast-relevant time-series properties of reported cash flows and accruals. Our experimental results suggest that nonprofessional investors are able to more quickly learn the relation between current period cash flows and accruals and future cash flow realizations when financial-statement information is presented in a single statement rather than separated into two statements. In addition, we find that nonprofessional investors exhibit lower levels of absolute forecast errors and less forecast dispersion when financial-statement information is unified into a single statement. Interestingly, we find that decreasing the number of periods of reported information from three to one does not negatively impact nonprofessional investor learning and prediction performance, both in terms of forecast errors and forecast dispersion. Overall, our results provide useful information related to the design of effective financial statement presentation format.

Keywords: proximity, feedback, financial statement format, cash flows, forecasting, judgment and decision making

JEL Classification: G12, G29, M41, M44, C91

Suggested Citation:

Hodge, Frank Douglas and Hopkins, Patrick E. and Wood, David A., The Effects of Financial Statement Information Proximity and Feedback on Cash Flow Forecasts (April 30, 2008). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 27, No.1, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1127782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43: Restatement and Revision of Accounting Research Bulletins Posted: 1953
A D Andre , C D Wickens
Proximity compatibility and information display: The effects of space and color on the analysis of aircraft stall conditions
National Technical Information Service. Available at Posted: 1989
W K Balzer , M E Doherty , R O&apos;connor
Effects of cognitive feedback on performance
Psychological Bulletin , volume 106 , issue 3 , p. 410 - 433 Posted: 1989
Crossref
M E Barth , D P Cram , K K Nelson
Accruals and the prediction of future cash flows
The Accounting Review , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Rachel Martin
Examination and Implications of Experimental Research on Investor Perceptions
91 Pages · Posted: 17 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 165
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elizabeth Blankespoor , Ed deHaan , Ivan Marinovic
Disclosure Processing Costs, Investors’ Information Choice, and Equity Market Outcomes: A Review
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 124 Pages · Posted: 20 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 15 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 2,721
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
885
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,131
RANK
62,070
2 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies