Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Capital Structure: Evidence from a Transition Economy

FinanzArchiv: Public Finance Analysis, Vol. 68(2), 2012.

35 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2008 Last revised: 1 Jul 2013

Konstantinos Tzioumis

ALBA Graduate Business School

Leora F. Klapper

World Bank; World Bank - Development Research Group (DECRG)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 20, 2011

Abstract

We examine the effects of taxation on financing policy using the corporate tax reform in 2001 in Croatia as a quasi-natural experiment. Since the extant literature on tax effects on capital structure studies listed firms in developed countries, it is worth investigating whether the same results apply to privately-held small and medium enterprises in transition economies. The findings provide significant evidence that lower taxes have affected the capital structure of Croatian firms, resulting in increased equity levels. These findings are consistent with the trade-off theory of capital structure, which suggests that lower taxes increase the incentive to hold equity due to decreasing interest tax deductibility of debt.

Keywords: Capital structure, Taxation, Transition Economies

JEL Classification: G32, G38, K34

Suggested Citation:

Tzioumis, Konstantinos and Klapper, Leora F., Taxation and Capital Structure: Evidence from a Transition Economy (October 20, 2011). FinanzArchiv: Public Finance Analysis, Vol. 68(2), 2012., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1130887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1130887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,638
RANK
107,544
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What Do We Know About Capital Structure? Some Evidence from International Data

By Raghuram G. Rajan and Luigi Zingales

The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: Evidence from the Field

By John R. Graham and Campbell R. Harvey

Capital Structure Puzzle

By Stewart C. Myers

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies