Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Liberalization and the Value Relevance of Accrual Accounting Information: Evidence from the Johannesburg Securities Exchange

Posted: 13 May 2008

Minga Negash

Metropolitan State University of Denver; University of the Witwatersrand

Date Written: July 2007

Abstract

Using 118 firms' panel data across a time period of 17 years and a battery of tests, this paper examines two research questions that pertain to the expected gains stemming from corporate information liberalization through the adoption of international accounting (financial reporting) standards. Results indicated that accrual accounting data at aggregate (market wide) level did not show break point(s) around the time of critical corporate information liberalization years. At the micro level, panel data tests on a version of Ohlson's (1995) model showed poor fits, but initially indicated some improvement (adjusted R-squares of between 12% and 25%) in value relevance in the post information liberalization period. However, when scale issues were addressed in cross sectional level type panel regressions, the difference in the R-Squares vanished; suggesting that the value relevance of accounting information did not improve in the post liberalization period.

Keywords: Value relevance, information liberalization, disclosure, IAS, IFRS, South Africa

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G12

Suggested Citation:

Negash, Minga, Liberalization and the Value Relevance of Accrual Accounting Information: Evidence from the Johannesburg Securities Exchange (July 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1132809
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,823
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies