Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management: Evidence from South Africa

Posted: 15 May 2008

Elaine Carol Rabin

University of the Witwatersrand

Minga Negash

Metropolitan State University of Denver; University of the Witwatersrand

Date Written: December 2007

Abstract

This paper investigates the distribution of South African earnings and the methods used for the identification of earnings management in previous studies. The earnings of firms listed on the Johannesburg Securities Exchange (JSE) between 1988 and 2005 are examined, and we find a discontinuity in the distribution of earnings around zero exists irrespective of the deflators used or the definition of earnings. Hence, like their international counter parts South African firms manage their earnings usually upwards. Furthermore, we find that in a setting of earnings management to avoid a loss, deferred tax is incrementally useful to all accrual measures in identifying earnings management. When the analysis is performed where earnings are managed to avoid decline, total accruals incrementally useful to deferred tax in detecting earnings manipulation in South Africa.

Keywords: earnings management, discretionary accruals, deferred tax, earnings discontinuity, Johannesburg securities exchange

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M47, H25

Suggested Citation:

Rabin, Elaine Carol and Negash, Minga, Earnings Management: Evidence from South Africa (December 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1132284
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies