Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness Between Brazilian ADR Issuers and Non Issuers and Between American and Brazilian Accounting Systems

36 Pages Posted: 18 May 2008

Antonio Carlos Coelho

UFC - FEAAC - PPAC

Joanilia Sales Cia

Universidade de São Paulo

Josilmar C. Cia

Universidade Presbiteriana Mackenzie

Iran Siqueira Lima

University of São Paulo (USP)

Date Written: May 16, 2008

Abstract

The article examines the differences, in terms of information quality (conditional conservatism), of the accounting reports of Brazilian ADR issuers and non issuers. We compare loss recognition timelines in the Brazilian public firms' financial statements. We also examine the demonstrations reported in the two accounting systems (BRGAAP and USGAAP), using the Reversal Transitory Components-based Model of Basu (1997) and the Accrual-based Model of Ball and Shivakumar (2005). The hypotheses consider that there are no differences in the degrees of conditional conservatism between the two groups of firms, due to contractual and institutional similarities affecting the two groups; the inexistence of incentives to modify managers' behavior by the process of cross listing; and adopting different accounting principles is not enough to motivate managers to report conservative earnings to investors. The tests confirm these hypotheses with models using panel data methods of estimation with a sample of 331 firms from 1993 to 2005. The results present low coefficients of determination and statistical significance.

Keywords: earnings quality, conservatism, loss recognition, cross listing, GAAP, ADR, emerging markets, Brazil

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, D82, K22, N26

Suggested Citation:

Coelho, Antonio Carlos Dias and Cia, Joanilia Sales and Cia, Josilmar Cordenonssi and Lima, Iran Siqueira, Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness Between Brazilian ADR Issuers and Non Issuers and Between American and Brazilian Accounting Systems (May 16, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1134109 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1134109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,170
RANK
333,158
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies