Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deriving a Holistic Performance Measurement System for the European Clearing Industry

14th Americas Conference in Information Systems, Toronto, Canada

14 Pages Posted: 21 May 2008 Last revised: 16 Mar 2011

Michael Chlistalla

Goethe University Frankfurt Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Torsten Schaper

Deutsche Börse Group; Goethe University Frankfurt Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

European clearing houses are facing competition on their home markets for the first time. In order to meet this new challenge, the management of a clearing house needs to identify its stakeholders and their interests and must define a strategy including financial and non-financial aims. We introduce the Balanced Scorecard as a funded and holistic approach for the management of a clearing house. To meet the specifics of the clearing industry, we present an adjustment and extension of Kaplan and Norton's original concept. Particularly risk management requires detailed consideration. We therefore add risk management as a separate perspective and integrate competition and IT into the modified Balanced Scorecard. Furthermore, we outline our research model for the validation of the modifications.

Keywords: Network Industries, Financial Infrastructures, Management Information Systems, Balanced Scorecard, Stakeholder Value

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M46, M47, G21, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chlistalla, Michael and Schaper, Torsten, Deriving a Holistic Performance Measurement System for the European Clearing Industry (2008). 14th Americas Conference in Information Systems, Toronto, Canada, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1134828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
H Ahn
How to Individualise Your Balanced Scorecard
Measuring Business Excellence , volume 9 , p. 5 - 12 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Blumenberg , D Hinz
Enhancing the Prognostic Power of IT Balanced Scorecards
39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Posted: 2006
A Borchardt , S E Göthlich
Erkenntnissgewinnung durch Fallstudien
Methodik der empirischen Forschung , p. 33 - 48 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Recommendation for securities settlement systems, Bank for International Settlements
CPSS Posted: 2001-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,575
RANK
766,148
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Trends in European Clearing and Settlement Industry - The European Code of Conduct and Target2-Securities

By Torsten Schaper

Competitive Clearing in Europe: Development of a Performance Measurement System in a Changing Environment

By Torsten Schaper and Michael Chlistalla

Managing Performance with the Balanced Scorecard - The Case of the European Clearing Industry

By Torsten Schaper and Michael Chlistalla

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies