Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability, the APRM State and Traditional Polity: The Case of Ethiopia

Posted: 19 May 2008

Minga Negash

Metropolitan State University of Denver; University of the Witwatersrand

Date Written: June 1, 2007

Abstract

This paper attempts to use agency theory to understand issues of governance and accountability in the public sector. It contributes to the debate about good governance in Ethiopia and by extension to the rest of Africa. The contributions are fourfold. First, using the microeconomic theory of agency and Hofstede's cultural dimensions, the paper documents that accountability and democracy are not alien concepts to Africans. Second, the discussion on the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) and agency led to one important insight. The existence of a mono ethnic or uni-cultured state is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for the creation of a government that is accountable. Third, the paper notes that Africa's traditional (indigenous) leadership can have synergetic value when the governance system is structured under the trias politica doctrine. Furthermore, advancing the trias politica doctrine in the context of multidimensional identities can serve as a prelude to a regional and a pan African constitution. Fourth, with regard to Ethiopia, the APRM brings both opportunities and challenges for the ruling regime as well as for its competitors.

Keywords: Agency, culture, accountability, African peer review mechanism, Ethiopia

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M48, D82

Suggested Citation:

Negash, Minga, Accountability, the APRM State and Traditional Polity: The Case of Ethiopia (June 1, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1134266
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,334
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies