Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Austrian Tax Law Encourage Lawsuits? An Empirical Analysis of the Tax Jurisdiction of the Austrian Supreme Administrative Court with Respect to Tax Rate, Tax Base, and Time Effects

Arqus Quantitative Tax Research Discussion Paper No. 40

36 Pages Posted: 22 May 2008 Last revised: 22 May 2008

Rainer Niemann

University of Graz, Center for Accounting Research; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research)

Christoph Kastner

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 1, 2008

Abstract

This paper analyzes the tax jurisdiction of the Austrian Supreme Administrative Court (VwGH) with respect to tax rate, tax base, and time effects. Tax base effects are the most frequent tax effects with almost 80% of all VwGH rulings. Although time effects predominate in the academic business tax literature, their proportion of VwGH decisions is only 14%. With a proportion of 6% of all decisions, tax rate effects affect tax jurisdiction only marginally. If the frequency of lawsuits is used as a proxy for tax compliance costs, the tax law could be simplified by more detailed tax laws that are less vulnerable to different interpretations. Due to the difficult separation of income and consumption in any tax system, it is not possible to avoid tax lawsuits completely.

Keywords: Austrian tax law, tax compliance costs, tax simplification, tax rate effects, tax base effects, time effects

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Niemann, Rainer and Kastner, Christoph, Does Austrian Tax Law Encourage Lawsuits? An Empirical Analysis of the Tax Jurisdiction of the Austrian Supreme Administrative Court with Respect to Tax Rate, Tax Base, and Time Effects (February 1, 2008). Arqus Quantitative Tax Research Discussion Paper No. 40, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1134758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1134758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Zahlungen, die als Sonderausgaben im Sinne des § 18 Abs. 1 öEStG zur Wohnraumschaffung anfielen
Crossref
Andererseits kann die Pflicht zur Beachtung detaillierter Vorschriften die Deklarations-und Kontrollkosten auch erhöhen, jedoch ist zu beachten, dass die Verringerung der Streitanfälligkeit auch die Notwendigkeit der Antizipation von Rechtsstreitigkeiten und somit Steuerplanungskosten reduziert. Das grundlegende Problem der Abgrenzung von Einkommenserzielung und Konsum tritt jedoch selbst in Steuersystemen auf
Betriebsausgaben liegt, würde eine Verringerung der Streitanfälligkeit detailliertere gesetzliche Regelungen erfordern. Dies steht im Gegensatz zu Vorschlägen, die Steuervereinfachung durch Kürzung von Gesetzestexten anstreben 53
Z B Vgl , Kirchhof
Posted: 2003
Literaturverzeichnis
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,307
RANK
592,728
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies