Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Equity 'Club Deals' and European Competition Policy: A Primer

19 Pages Posted: 25 May 2008 Last revised: 27 Apr 2009

Faysal Barrachdi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 13, 2008

Abstract

In the US, private equity 'club deals' have raised controversy as to potential risks of price fixing by consorting private equity firms. Surprisingly in Europe, private equity has managed to slip through the notorious far-reaching hand of the European Commission. This purpose of this paper is to shed an initial light on the issue of private equity consortia and how they fit in the contemporary European competition regime. Two essential competition concerns that have been brought up (1) private equity consortia entail a Monopsony setting. In an auction, the number of bidders are restricted, as a result that the bidding prices will drop below the competition price. (2) Private Equity consortia members share sensitive information in an auction in order to rig the bidding process (bid-rigging). Both concerns are examined against the background of the current European competition law framework. The first concern is examined in the light of the contemporary E.C. Merger Control regime. The second competition concern is subjected to article 81 §1 EC. The outcome of this paper is that there are, hitherto, no genuine competition impediments by private equity consortia. It appeared that the counterfactual used in a Monoposony setting did not apply in the case of private equity consortia. Similar to the US, in Europe private equity consortia operate in a plural market. The trend of private equity consortium is often compensated by other players that also participate (strategic players). Regarding the bid-rigging concerns, there was no actual empirical data available to determine the activities in Europe. We therefore assume that these practices have not (yet) occurred in the European situation.

Keywords: Private Equity, cross-border, M&A, European Competition Policy, Competition Law, US, Blackstone, Merger Control, 81, club deals, notification, EMCR, Global, GDS

Suggested Citation:

Barrachdi, Faysal, Private Equity 'Club Deals' and European Competition Policy: A Primer (May 13, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1137085 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1137085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
E M Bailey
Are Private Equity Consortia Anticompetitive? The Economics of Club Bidding, THE ANTITRUST SOURCE Posted: 2007-04
Boyce , Tubbs
Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Boyce , A Tubbs
The International Comparative Legal Guide to: Merger Control 2007 -A practical insight to cross-border merger control issues, Global Legal Group Posted: 2007
Brian R. Cheffins , John Armour
The Eclipse of Private Equity
ECGI - Law Working Paper No. 082/2007 Pages: 65 Posted: 24 Apr 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
562
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,788
RANK
112,247
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Beyond the Berle and Means Paradigm: Private Equity and the New Capitalist Order

By Stephen F. Diamond

Beyond the Berle and Means Paradigm: Private Equity and the New Capitalist Order

By Stephen F. Diamond

Beyond the Berle and Means Paradigm: Private Equity and the New Capitalist Order

By Stephen F. Diamond

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies