Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Timeliness of Annual Reports, Management Disclosure and Information Transparency -Evidence From China

29 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2008 Last revised: 5 Dec 2008

Xiongyuan Wang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Jun Gu

Department of Accounting and Finance, Lancaster University Management School; Department of Accounting, School of Economics, Shenzhen University

Christy Chen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 3, 2008

Abstract

This paper examines the determinants, the current signal effect and the long-term one from the timeliness of the annual report with the proxy of the short term signal effect and the information transparency next period respectively with the data from the A Stock Market in China from 2004 to 2006. We find that, management disclosure shows great influence on the timeliness of annual reports. The reporting lags of the first quarter report next year and the information type of annual reports are both owing significantly negative relation to the reporting lags. And the releasing of Earnings Forecast and Earnings Express are both in a significantly positive association with the reporting lags. After controlling the common factors such as auditing opinion, EPS, the timeliness of annual reports is positively related to the information transparency in the coming period, companies that bringing the timing forward indicates a high level of information transparency and a low one of earnings management, and the ones that taking the timing backward suffer from a result in contrary. Thus we conclude different timing selection interprets different signals that the announcements convey. The contribution of this paper to the literature on timeliness is that it detects and proves the determinants of the timing of annual reports and the signals it conveys on the basis of the unique institutional environment in China, which is of great significance on the proof of the consequence of related regulations announced by SEC

Keywords: Management Disclosure, Timeliness, Market Reaction, Earnings Forecast, Earnings Express, First Quarter Report

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M47, G12, G15

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xiongyuan and Gu, Jun and Gu, Jun and Chen, Christy, Timeliness of Annual Reports, Management Disclosure and Information Transparency -Evidence From China (December 3, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1143213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1143213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
K &quot; Ahmed , The , Of , Reporting: A Comparative , Study , South Asia
Advances in International Accounting , volume 16 , p. 17 - 43 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R H.; J J Ashton , R K Willingham , Elliott
An Empirical Analysis of Audit Delay
Book An Empirical Analysis of Audit Delay , p. 275 - 292 Posted: 1987
Crossref
R K.; L S Atiase , S Bamber , Tse
Timeliness of financial reporting, the firm size effect, and stock price reactions to annual earnings announcements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 526 - 552 Posted: 1989
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
563
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,659
RANK
111,976
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Restating Under the Radar? Determinants of Restatement Disclosure Choices and the Related Market Reactions

By Linda A. Myers, Susan Scholz, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies