Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Hazard and Legal Regimes: Analysis of the Reform Issues in South Africa

Staff Working Paper Series, School of Accountancy, University of the Witwatersrand

Posted: 16 Jun 2008

Minga Negash

Metropolitan State University of Denver; University of the Witwatersrand

Abstract

This paper is a by product of two research projects that were carried out by the School of Accountancy of the University of the Witwatersrand to support the works of (a) the Ministerial Panel for the Review of the Draft Accountancy Professions Bill and (b) the Audit and Assurances Standards Board (AASB) of the Public Accountants and Auditors Board (PAAB). The two research projects were separate. The paper contributes to the South African and by extension to the African audit literature by examining the issues that drive the current reform debate. Rotation of auditors, separation of consulting and statutory audit, audit committees, robust liability and criminal clauses and new international audit quality control standards are being considered to overcome audit failure, auditor independence and integrity problems. After an extensive review of the archival and empirical literature, the paper suggests a policy alternative in two areas of the reform debate: audit firm rotation and restriction of non-audit services.

Keywords: audit failure, auditor regulation, detection risk, South Africa

JEL Classification: M49, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Negash, Minga, Audit Hazard and Legal Regimes: Analysis of the Reform Issues in South Africa. Staff Working Paper Series, School of Accountancy, University of the Witwatersrand, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1146545
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,607
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies