Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards on the Accounts and Accounting Quality of Australian Firms: A Retrospective Study

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, December 2008

Posted: 28 Jun 2008

John Goodwin

Corvinus University

Kamran Ahmed

La Trobe Business School, La Trobe University

Richard A. Heaney

University of Western Australia

Abstract

This study examines the effect of Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on the accounts and accounting quality of 1,065 listed firms. Our data set is retrospective reconciliations from Australian GAAP (AGAAP) to IFRS disclosed in the notes to the annual accounts. We find that IFRS increases total liabilities, decreases equity and more firms have earnings decreases than increases. The leverage ratio is higher under IFRS. Using two different models, we find no evidence that IFRS earnings and equity are more value relevant than AGAAP earnings and equity. Adjustments for changes in accounting for intangibles, provisions and impairment are value relevant, but weaken associations with market value. The goodwill adjustments improve associations with market value. We also find that the reconciliation note for the earnings adjustments contained no new information.

Keywords: IFRS, accounting quality

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G29, G12

Suggested Citation:

Goodwin, John and Ahmed, Kamran and Heaney, Richard A., The Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards on the Accounts and Accounting Quality of Australian Firms: A Retrospective Study. Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, December 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1148520
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies