Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sham SPES, Part II: The Regulatory Gaps of International Accounting Standards Concerning the Consolidation of Special Purpose Entities

Internaitonal Company and Commercial Law Review, Vol. 17, No. 12, pp. 369-380, December 2006

12 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2008

Dmitry Gololobov

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joseph Atangan Tanega

University of Westminster, School of Law

Date Written: June 21, 2006

Abstract

This is the second part of a two-part article that examines the concepts of consolidation, disclosures and variable interest entities in the development of international accounting standards. Contra the trend of self-regulatory standards, the authors propose that the accountancy profession should consider promoting a formal "bright line" legal definition of a sham entity, with an appropriate range of punitive dis-incentives.

Keywords: consolidation, international accounting standards, special purpose vehicles

Suggested Citation:

Gololobov, Dmitry and Tanega, Joseph Atangan, Sham SPES, Part II: The Regulatory Gaps of International Accounting Standards Concerning the Consolidation of Special Purpose Entities (June 21, 2006). Internaitonal Company and Commercial Law Review, Vol. 17, No. 12, pp. 369-380, December 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1150296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
For a discussion of the significance of the new interpretations, see R. Fink, ''Playing Favorites: Why Alan Greenspan's Fed lets banks off easy on corporate fraud , p. 46 - 54 Posted: 2004-04
This obligation does not exist if the investors are protected from expected losses or are guaranteed a return by others involved with the entity
S J Adelkoff , L Jenkins
K&L alert-Special Purpose Entities, FASB Interpretation No
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities -An Overview , volume 46 Posted: 2003-01
A L See , G J Hartgraves , Genston
The Evolving Accounting Standards for Special Purpose Entities and Consolidations
The numbering indicates that this rule was the 15th rule during , p. 247 - 250 Posted: 1990-09
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,195
RANK
181,383
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies