Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for the Chinese Context: A Comparative Analysis of International and Chinese Accounting Standards Focusing on Business Combinations

Socio-Economic Review, Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 695-724, 2007

Posted: 10 Jul 2008

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Qiusheng Zhang

School of Economics and Management, Beijing Jiaotong University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2007

Abstract

This paper aims at understanding the recent evolution of Chinese accounting standards while focusing on accounting for business combinations as a case of reference. A comprehensive comparative analysis between the standards of the International Accounting Standards Board and Chinese accounting standards is provided, based upon a dualistic approach towards two opposing perspectives of accounting, static (fair value) and dynamic (matching based). The comparison casts doubt on the ultimate convergence of Chinese and international accounting standards. Main differences remain and are explained by taking into account: (i) the special Chinese context, (ii) the massive industrial development experienced by business enterprises in China and (iii) the dynamic accounting perspective that leading accounting theorists and Chinese regulatory authorities agree with and wish to encourage.

Keywords: accounting, corporate finance, China, international standards, business combinations, G34 corporate finance and governance, mergers, acquisitions, M41 accounting, O16 economic development, financial markets, saving and capital investment, corporate finance and governance

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri and Zhang, Qiusheng, Accounting for the Chinese Context: A Comparative Analysis of International and Chinese Accounting Standards Focusing on Business Combinations (October 2007). Socio-Economic Review, Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 695-724, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1157713 or http://dx.doi.org/mwm015
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,672
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies