Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Factors Affecting Chinese Financial Analysts' Information Comprehension, Analyzing Ability and Job Quality

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Jul 2008

Yiming Hu

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Aetna School of Management

Thomas W. Lin

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Siqi Li

Santa Clara University

Date Written: July 14, 2008

Abstract

This paper examines various factors affecting Chinese financial analysts' information comprehension, analyzing ability and job quality. We hypothesized that financial analysts with better educational background, more experience, superior resources provided by large brokerage firms and more information sources have better information comprehension, stronger analyzing ability, and higher job quality. Using a survey method to collect data, we found that information sources have a significant impact on analysts' information comprehension, analyzing ability and job quality. Specifically, analysts tend to exhibit greater information comprehension and better job quality when they conduct more company-level surveys. Additionally, when they have more access to firms' indirect information, analysts tend to have a stronger analyzing ability and better job quality. We also found that analysts' educational background has a positive impact on their analyzing ability while analysts' work experience improves their job quality. This study's results indicate that financial analysts are still a fledgling profession in current China, and the capabilities of Chinese financial analysts need to be improved through additional training and continued education. Moreover, our study is important in highlighting the urgency of fostering the development of the financial analysis profession in China.

Keywords: financial analysts, information comprehension, analyzing ability, job quality, Chinese

JEL Classification: G29, G24, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Yiming and Lin, Thomas W. and Li, Siqi, An Examination of Factors Affecting Chinese Financial Analysts' Information Comprehension, Analyzing Ability and Job Quality (July 14, 2008). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1159967
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,560
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies