Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The External Wealth of China: An Investigation from the International Balance Sheet Perspective

Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research (HKIMR) Research Paper WP No. 01/2008

28 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2008 Last revised: 6 Sep 2022

Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research

(HKIMR)

Date Written: January 31, 2008

Abstract

This working paper was written by Andrew Sheng (Tsinghua University) and Allen Ng (Bank Negara Malaysia).

International financial integration has accelerated at an unprecedented pace in recent years. External holdings of financial assets and liabilities for both industrial and emerging countries have grown rapidly since the mid-1990s, many times exceeding their respective national income, and traditional surveillance methods using flow data are increasingly incapable of satisfactorily explaining the recent major global economic developments. Using Lane and Milesi-Ferretti's (2006) rich data-set of external positions for 145 countries from 1970 to 2004, this paper selects several issues to highlight the usefulness of balance sheet analysis as a tool for historical understanding and to examine how it can help in an analysis of possible future vulnerabilities. Starting from a global overview, the study looks at China from a comparative angle vis-a-vis the world and the rest of Asia, and finally focuses on the evolution of the external position of China. Although the investigations are preliminary in nature, this paper demonstrates how China has emerged as an important net creditor in an increasingly integrated world and suggests that as China becomes more important globally as a net creditor, the balance sheet analysis of trends and a clearer focus on real total rates of return on external assets, and their risk management, have become increasingly more important over time. It is hoped that this paper will stimulate more academic and policy analysis in this growing area of policy importance.

Suggested Citation:

Institute for Monetary and Financial Research, Hong Kong, The External Wealth of China: An Investigation from the International Balance Sheet Perspective (January 31, 2008). Hong Kong Institute for Monetary and Financial Research (HKIMR) Research Paper WP No. 01/2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1160919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1160919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Mark Allen , Christoph Rosenberg , Christian Keller , Brad Setser , Nouriel Roubini
A Balance Sheet Approach to Financial Crisis Posted: 2002
Chong-En Bai , Chang-Tai Hsieh , Yingyi Qian
The Return to Capital in China
NBER Working Papers No.12755 Posted: 2006
Negara Bank , ; Malaysia , Bnm) , Various
Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM), various
NBER Working Papers No.12373 Posted: 2006
Barry Eichengreen , Yeongseop Rhee , Hui Tong
The Impact of China on the Exports of Other Asian Countries
NBER Working Papers No.10768 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,125
RANK
556,623
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The External Wealth of Nations Measures of Foreign Assets and Liabilities for Industrial and Developing Countries

By Philip R. Lane and Gian Maria Milesi-ferretti

The External Wealth of Nations Mark Ii: Revised and Extended Estimates of Foreign Assets and Liabilities, 1970-2004

By Philip R. Lane and Gian Maria Milesi-ferretti

The External Wealth of Nations Mark Ii: Revised and Extended Estimates of Foreign Assets and Liabilities, 1970-2004

By Philip R. Lane and Gian Maria Milesi-ferretti

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies