Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Change in Management Accounting and Control Systems: Additional Evidence from Australia

29 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2008

Zahirul Hoque

La Trobe University

Date Written: July 15, 2008

Abstract

This paper reports the results of a questionnaire survey investigating organizational and environmental determinants of the rate of changes in management accounting and control systems (MACS) within Australian manufacturing firms. The Australian findings are also compared with the findings of two related prior studies [Libby, T., and Waterhouse, J. H. 1996. Predicting change in management accounting system. Journal of Management Accounting Research, 8, 137-150; and Williams, J. J., and Seaman, A. E. 2001. Predicting change in management accounting systems: national culture and industry effects. Accounting, Organizations and Society, 26, 443-460]. The change rate for a list of 23 components of MACS and the extent to which this rate is associated with intensity of market competition, decentralization, organizational capacity to learn, and firm size are reported. The study uses survey responses of 34 managers, drawn from a cross-section of Australian manufacturing companies. In the current study, the average number of changes in MACS in the sample organizations was 5.29 times in the period 2003-2005; this was 15.7 percent more than the average of 4.46 changes reported by Libby and Waterhouse and 44.8 percent more than the average of 2.92 changes reported by Williams and Seaman in their sample manufacturing firms. Consistent with Libby and Waterhouse, the results provide strong support for a positive association between the rate for changes in MACS and intensely competitive environments. Also, consistent with Libby and Waterhouse and Williams and Seaman, organizational capacity to learn was found to be an important predictor of the rate for changes in MACS. However, contrary to expectation, the rate for changes in MACS is not significantly associated with decentralization. On the other hand, contrary to Libby and Waterhouse and Williams and Seaman, firm size appeared to be an important predictor of the rate for changes in MACS.

Keywords: Management accounting control system, management accounting change, contingent factors, environmental factors, contingency theory, international comparison

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M47, C93

Suggested Citation:

Hoque, Zahirul, Predicting Change in Management Accounting and Control Systems: Additional Evidence from Australia (July 15, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1160125 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1160125
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
M A Abernethy , J U Stoelwinder
Budget use, task uncertainty, system goal orientation and subunit performance: a test of the 'fit' hypothesis in not-for-profit hospitals. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 16 , p. 105 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
The impact of manufacturing flexibility on management control system design. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , p. 241 - 258 Posted: 1995
Crossref
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
Interdependencies in organizational design: A test in Hospitals
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 129 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens
Determinants of accounting innovation implementation
ABACUS , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 217 - 240 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
963
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,619
RANK
55,162
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies