Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance of Quoted and Non-Quoted Companies in the Europe

European Financial and Accounting Journal, Vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 45-69, 2008

25 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2008 Last revised: 19 Dec 2010

Tomas Buus

University of Economics, Prague

Date Written: July 22, 2008

Abstract

Using 4-dimensional panel data (time, industry, country, companies) we examine the differences between European quoted and non-quoted companies at the level financial performance and some financial ratios. We find that quoted companies perform significantly better not only in terms of profit, but also in terms of cash flow generation. We also find some interesting differences in financial structure, liquidity and collection and credit period, not only from the perspective of quotation, but also between European regions (thus different trade habits), e.g. significantly longer credit period and collection period for countries with more relaxed trade habits (Spain, Italy, France). Our findings have some indirect implications for agency theory, for view of different accounting standards conservatism and earnings management, as well as (mainly) for business and stock valuation and financial planning.

Keywords: Profitability, quotation, agency cost

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G39

Suggested Citation:

Buus, Tomas, Performance of Quoted and Non-Quoted Companies in the Europe (July 22, 2008). European Financial and Accounting Journal, Vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 45-69, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1169983
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A W Alford
The Effect of the Set of Comparable Firms on the Accuracy of the Price-Earnings Valuation Method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 108 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Conservative Accounting Choices , volume 51 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
W Beeks , P Pope , S Young
The Link between Earnings Timeliness, Earnings Conservatism and Board Composition: Evidence from the UK. Corporate Governance , volume 12 , p. 47 - 59 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,599
RANK
508,508
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies