Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Redesigning Heaven: Tax Haven Reform in the Netherlands Antilles

Tax Notes International, 2005

12 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2008 Last revised: 29 Oct 2009

Georges A. J. Cavalier

University of Lyon 3

Date Written: June 22, 2005

Abstract

This paper identifies legislative changes into tax havens' legislation as a resulting fromof pressure from rich countries exercised through the OECD. It focuses on the specific situation of the Netherlands Antilles. The paper analyzes the response given by the Netherlands Antilles to the international community through the modification of its tax agreement with the mother country in Europe, and considers whether this is a solution for adoption by other tax havens. The paper then argues that such a model is not appropriate for use in a small economy which cannot rely on a supportive mother country nor on tourism as an alternative resource. The paper concludes that the legal status of small island states could be reconsidered in public international law and proposes that rich countries adopt a balanced approach when considering harmful tax competition.

Suggested Citation:

Cavalier, Georges A. J., Redesigning Heaven: Tax Haven Reform in the Netherlands Antilles (June 22, 2005). Tax Notes International, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1174301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
memorie van toelichting (explanatory memorandum), para. 1, section 1 Posted: 1999
Id
Doggart
Tax Havens and Their Uses, p
To seal Nauru off from the American financial system
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
RANK
244,564
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies