Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capitalizing Research & Development and 'Other Information': The Incremental Information Content of Accruals versus Cash Flows

Journal of Management Control, Vol. 22, No. 3, pp. 241-278, 2011

46 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2008 Last revised: 7 Dec 2011

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Date Written: November 30, 2011

Abstract

This paper studies the role of the accrual process for providing value relevant information on intangibles. Expensing research & development (R&D) expenditures is, by nature, equivalent to cash accounting. Prior studies have found that accrual information has superior explanatory power for market values compared to cash flows (Dechow 1994). We demonstrate, for a sample of German firms, that this also holds true for R&D accounting. By adjusting the earnings we create two samples reflecting R&D capitalization and expensing, respectively. We demonstrate that capitalizing R&D expenditures creates an additional accrual component of earnings which increases the explanatory power of earnings compared to cash flows (expensing) while internalizing ‘other information’ into the accounting system. This explains the higher value relevance of capitalized R&D compared to expensing established in prior research (Lev and Sougiannis 1996).

Keywords: Accruals, Cash Flows, Intangibles, Other Information, Research & Development, Value Relevance

JEL Classification: C23, G12, G15, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Dinh, Tami and Schultze, Wolfgang, Capitalizing Research & Development and 'Other Information': The Incremental Information Content of Accruals versus Cash Flows (November 30, 2011). Journal of Management Control, Vol. 22, No. 3, pp. 241-278, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1176643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
E Amir , B Lev , T Sougiannis
Do financial analysts get intangibles?
European Accounting Review , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 635 - 659 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B H Baltagi
Econometric Analysis of Panel Data Posted: 2005
O E Barron , K Byard , C Kile , E J Riedl
High-technology intangibles and analysts' forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 312 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M E Barth
Valuation-based accounting research: Implications for financial reporting and opportunities for future research
Accounting and Finance , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 31 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
723
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,897
RANK
81,167
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Longitudinal Earnings Value Relevance and Intangible Assets: Evidence from Australian Firms, 1975-99

By John Goodwin

Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Impact on the Value Relevance of Intangible Assets

By Keryn Chalmers, Greg Clinch, ...

Accounting and Valuation: How Helpful are Recent Accounting Rule Changes?

By Bradford Cornell and Wayne R. Landsman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies