Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small GAAP: A Large Jump for the IASB

10th Annual Conference for Financial Reporting and Business Communication, Cardiff, July 2006

32 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2008 Last revised: 15 Aug 2008

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: July 6, 2006

Abstract

In the last fifteen years, many national standard setters have introduced differential reporting for small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Internationally, SMEs are a diverse and dynamic group which are described under broad characteristics in different countries. Acceptance and imposition of International Accounting Standards (IASs) has reignited the debate on differential reporting, especially since the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued a discussion document in June 2004 on SME reporting. The prevalence of an unsubstantiated view that SMEs are 'small entities on the way to becoming large entities' overshadows the argument on whether and how SMEs should be offered relief from highly technical IAS. Unique SME factors, including close-knit agency relationships, and a tendency to aim for survival and stability over profit maximisation and growth suggest a distinctly different focus to the IASB conceptual framework is required. It is the objective of this paper to provide a review of the diversity in jurisdictional approaches to resolve conceptual and standard-setting issues. This research has been motivated by the absence in academic literature of sufficient studies examining the underlying issues fundamental to redefining the balance between the accountability and decision-usefulness functions of general purpose financial reporting. To achieve this objective, this paper considers relevant academic and practitioner literature before undertaking an analysis of the issues this literature raises.

Keywords: Small GAAP, SMEs, IASB, FRSSE

JEL Classification: K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cordery, Carolyn J. and Baskerville, Rachel F., Small GAAP: A Large Jump for the IASB (July 6, 2006). 10th Annual Conference for Financial Reporting and Business Communication, Cardiff, July 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1179082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1179082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
SME Accounting Standards: Answers to questions submitted by the IASB" The European Committee of Central Balance Sheet Offices Posted: 2004-09-22
Comment letter to Paul Pacter
Australian Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2004-09-24
R F Baskerville
Responses to Exposure Drafts; Comparing data from Posted: 1996
New Zealand with responses to Australian and International Exposure Drafts on the Same Topic Financial Accounting Abstracts Working Paper series
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,568
RANK
151,526
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Setting UK Standards on the Concept of Control: An Analysis of Lobbying Behaviour

By Renata Isabel Stenka and Peter Taylor

The Role of Expectancy Theory and Observed Constituency Response Levels to Exposure Drafts in Accounting Standard-Setting in New Zealand

By Rachel F. Baskerville

Practitioners’ Participation in the Accounting Standard-Setting Process

By Sylvain Durocher and Anne Fortin

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies