Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harmonizing International Qualifications of Accountants - Steps Toward Reciprocity in a Global Profession

Journal of Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 12, No. 5, Fall 2004

15 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2008

Linda A. Hall

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July, 28 2008

Abstract

While significant steps have been made toward the acceptance and use of harmonized international accounting standards, there is also strong support for international credentials for accountants - that is, the development of a harmonized set of qualifications for entry into and practice in the profession. Inasmuch as harmonized accounting standards may lead to financial statements that cross borders without restatement or translation, international standards for professional accountants may lead to the freer movement of professional accountants across borders. The organization taking responsibility for this daunting task is the IFAC - the International Federation of Accountants. This paper aims to monitor the progress of the IFAC's mission by looking at professional qualification standards and the existence of reciprocity agreements among member countries. Country standards are investigated in light of the IFAC's recent initiatives to harmonize member bodies' requirements in the areas of education and professional codes of ethics. Noteworthy, however, when classified by world regions, differences appear to exist in the context of the requirements for continuing education and practical experience for professional accountants. Furthermore, certain variations among the information regarding reciprocity level among countries and regions warrant opportunities for additional exploratory research.

Suggested Citation:

Hall, Linda A., Harmonizing International Qualifications of Accountants - Steps Toward Reciprocity in a Global Profession (July, 28 2008). Journal of Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 12, No. 5, Fall 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1183676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1183676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Abdel Agani , Karen Cascini
Is international reciprocity possible?
Professional Accounting in , volume 66 , issue 3 Posted: 1997-03
Aicpa Countries , Inc
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Professional Accounting in Foreign Countries Series, various editions Posted: 1975
Anyane-Ntow , Ed Kwabena
International Handbook of Accounting Education and Certification Posted: 1992
Ann Bednarz
Legislation refocuses corp. reporting systems
Network World. www.nwfusion.com; Economist Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,962
RANK
277,436
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies