Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing in an Imperfect Market: A Case Study of Productivity Accounting

AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

20 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2008

Enrico Uliana

University of Cape Town (UCT) Retired

Nelson Waweru

York University - School of Administrative Studies

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 28, 2008

Abstract

An interesting and innovative application for productivity accounting was implemented at the South African Mint. The SA Mint Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of the South African Reserve Bank, and is responsible for producing the country's coins. The currency coins are sold directly to the SARB, which determines the quantity of each coin to be produced. As is typical in many transfer pricing situations, the SARB feared they would bear the cost of inefficiencies in the SA Mint. A total factor productivity accounting system was implemented, which could isolate increases in prices, better utilization of capacity, and better efficiency of operations. In this way, the Mint was able to show that the prices of the coins to the SARB were not increasing as a result of internal inefficiencies. This paper examines the use of productivity accounting for transfer pricing at the SA Mint in order to extract learning points and to establish if the approach is generally feasible.

Keywords: Transfer pricing, productivity accounting, imperfect markets

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Uliana, Enrico and Waweru, Nelson Maina, Transfer Pricing in an Imperfect Market: A Case Study of Productivity Accounting (July 28, 2008). AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1184082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1184082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
R Anthony , V Govindarajan , ; T, Reichelstien , S A Sahay
Negotiated verses cost-based transfer pricing
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 4 , p. 67 - 91 Posted: 1999
C H Chen
Case study application of VSM to transfer pricing
Systemic Practice and Action Research , volume 18 , p. 4 - 379 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Colbert Spicer , B
A multi-case investigation of a theory of the transfer pricing process, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , p. 6 - 423 Posted: 1995
R G Eccles
The transfer pricing problem: A theory for practice Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
787
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,322
RANK
72,666
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies