Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review of China's Financial System and Initiatives for the Future

Wharton Financial Institutions Center Working Paper No. 08-28

70 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2008

Franklin Allen

Imperial College London; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jun "QJ" Qian

Fudan University - International School of Finance (FISF); National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

Meijun Qian

Zhejiang University International Business School

Mengxin Zhao

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: July 28, 2008

Abstract

We provide a comprehensive review of China's financial system, and explore directions of future development. First, the current financial system is dominated by a large banking sector. In recent years banks have made considerable progress in reducing the amount of non-performing loans and improving their efficiency. It is important that these efforts are continued. Second, the role of the stock market in allocating resources in the economy has been limited and ineffective. Further development of China's stock market and other financial markets is the most important task in the long-term. Third, the most successful part of the financial system, in terms of supporting the growth of the overall economy, is a non-standard sector that consists of alternative financing channels, governance mechanisms, and institutions. This sector should coexist with banks and markets in the future in order to continue to support the growth of the Hybrid Sector (non-state, non-listed firms). Finally, in order to sustain stable economic growth, China should aim to prevent and halt damaging financial crises, including a banking sector crisis, a real estate or stock market crash, and a twin crisis in the currency market and banking sector.

Keywords: banks, non-performing loans, markets, corporate governance, hybrid sector, financial crisis

JEL Classification: O53, K00, G15, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Franklin and Qian, Jun and Qian, Meijun and Zhao, Mengxin, Review of China's Financial System and Initiatives for the Future (July 28, 2008). Wharton Financial Institutions Center Working Paper No. 08-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1185877 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1185877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
George Alessandria , Jun Qian
Endogenous Financial Intermediation and Real Effects of Capital Account Liberalization
Journal of International Economics , volume 67 , p. 97 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Franklin Allen , Michael Chui , Angela Maddaloni
Financial Systems in Europe, the USA, and Asia
Oxford Review of Economy Policy , volume 20 , p. 490 - 508 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Douglas ____ , Gale
Diversity of Opinion and Financing of New Technologies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 8 , p. 68 - 89 Posted: 1999
____ , ____
Comparing Financial Systems Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,016
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,485
RANK
51,226
19 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

China's Financial System: Past, Present, and Future

By Franklin Allen, Jun "qj" Qian, ...

Information Asymmetry, Market Segmentation, and the Pricing of Cross-Listed Shares: Theory and Evidence from Chinese a and B Shares

By Sugato Chakravarty, Asani Sarkar, ...

Puzzles in the Chinese Stock Market

By John G. Fernald and John H. Rogers

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies