Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk, Employee Incentive Intensity and Firm Performance: Empirical Evidence

36 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2008

Joanna L.Y. Ho

University of California, Irvine - Accounting Area

Ling-Chu Lee

National Pingtung Institute of Commerce

Anne Wu

National Chengchi University (Taipei)

Date Written: August 2, 2008

Abstract

The agent theory is of central importance to compensation contract, which argues that incentive intensity should be negatively associated with risk. Yet, previous studies have reported mixed findings on this relationship. This study empirically examines this relationship by utilizing data obtained from a major car dealership in Taiwan in which levels of delegation and monitoring costs are held constant. Our overall results support the prediction of agency theory, namely, that auto dealership branches reduce incentive intensity for salespersons when facing higher risks. Importantly, we find that branches giving salespersons lower incentive intensity in more risky environments perform better than those that do not employ compensation practices based on the agency theory.

Keywords: Risk, Compensation, Incentive Intensity, Performance

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Joanna L.Y. and Lee, Ling-Chu and Wu, Anne, Risk, Employee Incentive Intensity and Firm Performance: Empirical Evidence (August 2, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1196903 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1196903
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J Abowd
Does Performance-Based Managerial Compensation Affect Corporate Performance?
Industrial and Labor Relations Review , volume 43 , p. 52 - 73 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The Other Side of the Trade-off: The Impact of Risk on Executive Compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D W Allen , D Lueck
Risk Preferences and the Economics of Contracts
The American Economic Review , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 447 - 451 Posted: 1995
D W Allen , D Lueck
The Role of Risk in Contract Choice
Journal of Law Economics and Organization , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 704 - 736 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,418
RANK
349,147
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies