Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supervisor Discretion in Target Setting: An Empirical Investigation

AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

47 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2008 Last revised: 7 Dec 2009

Jasmijn C. Bol

Tulane University - A.B. Freeman School of Business

Timothy M. Keune

University of Dayton - Accounting

Ella Mae Matsumura

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Jae Yong Shin

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 30, 2009

Abstract

In a setting where total sales targets are dictated by corporate headquarters, we study how supervisors allocate sales targets to individual stores. Specifically, we analyze whether supervisors strategically use their discretion in the target-setting process to deal with compensation contracting issues. We begin by examining whether supervisors use their discretion to manage compensation risk. The results are consistent with the agency prediction that supervisors provide easier targets to stores that face higher levels of store-specific risk. Next, we examine whether discretion is used to mitigate fairness concerns. The results suggest that, consistent with behavioral arguments, supervisors use their discretion to deal with fairness issues, even if the area in which the supervisor is granted discretion is not the source of the fairness concerns. Finally, we analyze whether supervisors use their discretion in the target-setting process to reduce their potential confrontation costs. Consistent with research in psychology, we find that supervisors provide easier targets to store managers with relatively higher hierarchical status.

Keywords: Discretion, sales target, target-setting process, compensation risk, fairness concerns, confrontation costs

JEL Classification: M12, M40, M46, M47, J31, J33

Suggested Citation:

Bol, Jasmijn C. and Keune, Timothy M. and Matsumura, Ella Mae and Shin, Jae Yong, Supervisor Discretion in Target Setting: An Empirical Investigation (November 30, 2009). AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1196722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1196722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
Fairness and unemployment
The American Economic Review , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 44 - 49 Posted: 1988
C Anderson , J L Berdahl
The experience of power: Examining the effects of power on approach and inhibition tendencies
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 1362 - 1377 Posted: 2002
Crossref
----- , O P John , D Keltner , A M Kring
Who attains social status? Effects of personality and physical attractiveness in social groups
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 81 , issue 1 , p. 116 - 132 Posted: 2001
Shannon W. Anderson , Henri C. Dekker , Karen Sedatole
An Empirical Examination of Goals and Performance-to-Goal Following the Introduction of an Incentive Bonus Plan with Participative Goal-setting
Management Science. Vol. 56, No. 1, January 2010, pp. 90–109, Pages: 48 Posted: 27 Mar 2007 Last revised: 7 May 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,039
RANK
125,413
20 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Subjectivity in Compensation Contracting

By Jasmijn C. Bol

Subjective Adjustments to Objective Performance Measures

By Alex Woods

The Role of Financial Incentives in Balanced Scorecard-Based Performance Evaluations: Correcting Mood Congruency Biases

By Shujun Ding and Philip Beaulieu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies