Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Schneider Electric Argentina: Beyond Budgeting

32 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2008

Jose María Corrales

Universidad Austral - IAE Business School

Pedro Frías

Universidad de San Andres; Universidad Austral - IAE Business School

Ivana Lobo

IAE Business School, Universidad Austral

Date Written: August 4, 2008

Abstract

Nowadays, Schneider Electric is the world leader of electrical distribution, industrial control, and automation - at both product and service levels. Worldwide, Schneider consists of 105.000 employees in 190 countries, 25 research and development centers, 207 production plants, 60 logistic centers, 15.000 sales outlets and consolidated revenues of euro 14 billion.

In 2003, Schneider Electric Argentina ceased to use the budget as a control tool - a cornerstone foreseen in the Managerial Performance Project (MAP). This Project promoted by headquarters and implemented in the whole company, implied the joint use of three tools: rolling forecast, consolidated accounting and balanced scorecard instead of the traditional budgeting and local profitability concepts.

Three years later, it is time to make a management balance and questions about advantages and future fears arose.

The case allows deepening into advantages and problems appeared when implemented a model aligned to the Beyond Budgeting concept. The discussion lets know the alternative model to the traditional budget considering problems and advantages; analyze the existent alignment between compensation, control and performance measurement systems; deal the issue of slacks creation and think about the impact generated by variable and fix compensations.

To write this case was used information provided by the company and interviews to leading actors of the case.

Keywords: Budget, Beyond Budgeting Concept, Control Systems, Compensation Systems, Performance Measurement Systems

Suggested Citation:

Corrales, Jose María and Frías, Pedro and Lobo, Ivana, Schneider Electric Argentina: Beyond Budgeting (August 4, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1201383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1201383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Anita Chombeng Rene
Budgeting: A Tool for Financial Management and Control: The Case of the Presbyterian Church in Cameroon
35 Pages · Posted: 14 Jan 2016 · Downloads: 986
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ivan Montiel , Alvaro Cuervo-Cazurra , Junghoon Park , Raquel Antolin-Lopez , Bryan Husted
Implementing the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals in International Business
Montiel. I., Cuervo-Cazurra, A., Park, J., Antolin-Lopez, R., Husted, B.W. 2021. Implementing the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals in International Business. Journal of International Business Studies 52(5): 999-1030, · 57 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 16 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 423
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
653
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,368
RANK
92,574
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies