Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Have April 2000 Changes in Japanese Tax Law Been Effective?

48 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2008

Paul Lajbcygier

Monash University - Department of Banking & Finance

Mei Ong

Monash University - Clayton School of IT

Date Written: August 6, 2008

Abstract

The Japanese mutual fund industry has provided systematic negative risk adjusted returns over the past three decades. It has been suggested that this underperformance may be attributed to antiquated tax regulation. The Japanese government enacted new tax laws in April 2000. This, along with other reforms around that time, led to huge cash inflows and consequential structural changes in the Japanese mutual fund industry. In this work we use a new technology, known as the gap statistic, to validate that the number of Japanese mutual fund styles was eight prior to the change in tax laws. A previous study suggests that five styles were appropriate after the changes in tax law. Hence, we infer that the changes in tax law caused a decline in the number styles, from eight to five, eliminating old, tax dependent mutual fund investment styles.

Keywords: Funds management, style, clustering, Japanese mutual funds

JEL Classification: G12, G15, G23, H20, C30

Suggested Citation:

Lajbcygier, Paul and Ong, Mei, Have April 2000 Changes in Japanese Tax Law Been Effective? (August 6, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1206561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1206561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
S J Brown , W N Goetzmann
Mutual fund styles
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 373 - 399 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S J Brown , W N Goetzmann , T Hiraki , T Otsuki , N Shiraishi
The Japanese open-end fund puzzle
‖ Journal of Business , volume 74 , p. 59 - 77 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S J Brown , W N Goetzmann , T Hiraki , N Shiraishi , M Watanabe
Investor Sentiment in Japanese and US Daily mutual Fund Flows‖ Posted: 2002
Crossref
S J Brown , W N Goetzmann , T Hiraki , T Otsuki , S Noriyoshi
An analysis of the relative performance of Japanese and foreign money management
‖ Pacific-Basin Finance Journal , volume 11 , p. 393 - 412 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,980
RANK
834,175
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Risk Taking by Mutual Funds as a Response to Incentives

By Judith A. Chevalier and Glenn Ellison

Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets

By Richard C. Green and Jonathan Berk

Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets

By Richard C. Green and Jonathan Berk

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies