Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Debt and Performance of Continental European Firms

30 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2008 Last revised: 20 May 2009

Victoria Krivogorsky

San Diego State University

Gary Grudnitski

San Diego State University

Wolfgang Dick

ESSEC Business School

Date Written: May 19, 2009

Abstract

When the sources of external capital for Continental European firms are examined, debt has historically supplied a much larger percentage of the external capital than equity markets. Moreover, firms in Continental Europe often rely more on bank debt than bonds for their external funds. The objective of this paper is to offer insights into bank-based governance and as an innovation to the literature, we test for the impact that banks derive when they are major assets owners through debt but do not have significant equity holdings. For our tests we use a unique data set collected from the ORBIS and AMADEUS data bases consisting of 683 firm observations from Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain. After controlling for firm- and country-specific characteristics, we test to determine if the share of the assets owned by a bank through direct debt is correlated with a firm's performance. Testing only those companies where banks are minority shareholders, we minimize possible confounding effects on performance from the banks equity ownership. We find statistical support for the association between the bank ownership of the assets and performance for our overall sample. When repeating a separate analysis for each country other than Portugal, we find consistent support for the relationship between bank debt and the performance measure of return on assets for firms from each of the six remaining countries in our sample. Overall, these results lend credence to the notion that a bank, through its long-term debt, appears to serve as a significant countervailing force to the governance practices of a firm’s equity owners.

Keywords: bank debt/total assets, corporate governance, financial performance

JEL Classification: G15, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Krivogorsky, Victoria and Grudnitski, Gary and Dick, Wolfgang, Bank Debt and Performance of Continental European Firms (May 19, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1209022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1209022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
J Armour
Share Capital and Creditor Protection: Efficient Rules for a Modern Company Law
Modern Law Review , volume 63 , p. 374 - 375 Posted: 2000
Crossref
F Barca , M Becht
The Control of Corporate Europe Posted: 2001
Crossref
T Baum
Corporate Governance in Germany-System and Recent Developments
Aspects of Corporate Governance Posted: 1994
M Becht , E Böehmer
Ownership and Voting Power in Germany
The Control of Corporate Europe , p. 128 - 154 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,974
RANK
207,517
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Globalization of Finance and its Implications for Financial Stability: An Overview of the Issues

By Jorge A. Chan-lau

Idiosyncratic and Systemic Risk in the European Corporate Sector: A CDO Perspective

By Jorge A. Chan-lau and Yinqiu Lu

Economic Capital Gauged

By Pia E. K. Berg-yuen and Elena Medova

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies