Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Due Process Failure in Sector-Neutral Accounting Standard-Setting

Financial Accountability & Management Vol. 18, No. 1, February 2002

23 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2008

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Sonja Pont Newby

Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia

Date Written: February 27, 2002

Abstract

This study of due process in New Zealand draws upon information concerning events from 1993 to 1996 that resulted in the revision of a newly approved financial reporting standard and the withdrawal of requirements for the disclosure of director remuneration. Traditional consultation processes preceding approval of the standard failed to provide the FRSB with an adequate signal of the opposition to come, indicating a failure of due process. Analysis of this case study suggests adoption of a single and sector-neutral Board in New Zealand was undertaken with a poor appreciation of how to manage effective due process in a 'sector-neutral' world

Keywords: accounting, standard-setting, sector neutral, due process, directors' remuneration, FRS-9

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Pont Newby, Sonja, Due Process Failure in Sector-Neutral Accounting Standard-Setting (February 27, 2002). Financial Accountability & Management Vol. 18, No. 1, February 2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1213731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
R N Anthony
The Foolishness of FASB's Nonprofit Classes
The Nonprofit Accounting Mess', Accounting Horizons , volume 75 , p. 50 - 52 Posted: 1993
A Barton
Public and Private Sector Accounting the Non-identical Twins
Australian Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 31 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Beresford
Congress Looks at Accounting for Business Combinations', Accounting Horizons , volume 15 , p. 73 - 86 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Boston , J Martin , J Pallot , P Walsh
Reshaping the State: New Zealand's Bureaucratic Revolution Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,296
RANK
379,264
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies