Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance of the PRC Qingtongxia Aluminum Corporation

International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting, Forthcoming

7 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2008 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Jiexin Liu

University of Maryland School of Medicine

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Sungsoo Kim

Rutgers Business School - Camden; University of Minnesota - Minneapolis

Date Written: Vol. 1 No.1, 2008

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the governance of a Chinese state owned enterprise (SOE) and highlight the accounting environment in the People's Republic of China. We look at the cultural and operational aspect of the Qingtongxia Aluminum Smelter Corporation and try to shed light on the role of accounting in decision making processes in this vibrant economy.

Keywords: Corporate governance, PRC, Danwei, Guanxi, State owned enterprise (SOE), Culture, Political Economy

JEL Classification: C93, E11, G3, M14, M4, P2

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Jiexin and Feroz, Ehsan H. and Kim, Sungsoo, Governance of the PRC Qingtongxia Aluminum Corporation (Vol. 1 No.1, 2008). International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1213354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,717
RANK
464,622
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies