Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Model of Firm Size and the Role of Management Control Systems in the Demand for Delegation: Evidence from Chinese Manufacturers

AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

46 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2008 Last revised: 17 Jan 2012

Carmencita Cheung

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Shirley Daniel

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Dongyoung Lee

University of Utah - School of Accounting and Information Systems

Wolf D. Reitsperger

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 28, 2010

Abstract

The management control systems (MCS) in Chinese manufacturers have come under increased attention. We examine the relation between the promotion-prospects-based incentives and three major components of performance measurement systems (i.e., goal-setting, feedback and goal-upgrade activities), and its consequent effects on managers’ attitudes toward top management’s delegation or involvement in 38 Hong Kong-owned manufacturing firms operating in the Pearl River Delta region. The study uses structural equation modeling analysis to present a comparative model of firm size and incorporates the effects of firm size on the MCS, which, in turn, affect the demand for top management’s delegation of decision-making authority. We find that managers in SME are more inclined to demand for top management’s delegation in both promotion-based incentives and goal-setting activities, whereas they desire top management’s involvement in feedback activities. This indicates that managers in SMEs prefer to set target goals without top management’s involvement, while they demand top management to be involved in evaluating whether target goals are accomplished. In contrast, we find that managers in large firms do not express their demand for top management’s delegation in their use of MCS. Overall, our findings suggest that SMEs in China need to consider the demand for top management’s delegation or involvement in the design of MCS.

Keywords: Control systems, Incentives, Performance measures, delegation, Chinese firms

JEL Classification: M41, M11, M12, L60

Suggested Citation:

Cheung, Carmencita and Daniel, Shirley and Lee, Dongyoung and Reitsperger, Wolf D., A Comparative Model of Firm Size and the Role of Management Control Systems in the Demand for Delegation: Evidence from Chinese Manufacturers (August 28, 2010). AAA 2009 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1213762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1213762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
M A Abernethy
Determinants of Control System Design in Divisionalized Firms
Acc. Rev , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Aminpour , J Woetzel
Applying lean manufacturing in China , p. 41 - 49 Posted: 2006
B E Ashforth
The experience of powerlessness in organizations
Org. Br. Hum. Dec. Proc , volume 43 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 1989
Crossref
S Baiman
Agency research in managerial accounting: a survey
J. Acc. Lit , volume 1 , p. 154 - 213 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,194
RANK
224,403
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

An Overview and Assessment of Contemporary Management Accounting Research in China

By Rong-ruey Duh, Jason Zezhong Xiao, ...

Top Management Adoption of a Locally Driven Performance Measurement and Evaluation System: A Social Network Perspective

By Bertrand Joseph Masquefa

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies