Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Generous Interpretation of Collateral

Business School, University of Exeter, Accounting Working Paper No. 06/08

18 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2008

Trish Keeper

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: February 27, 2007

Abstract

This study offers an examination of the decision and implementation in New Zealand of a personal property security regime based in North American Article 9 Models, with specific focus on the approach in force in Saskatchewan at that time. Subsequent to the New Zealand Personal Property Securities Act 1999 coming into force in 2002, a number of cases have considered the conflicting nature of creditor interests in personal property. The research question underlying this study is "Has the new personal property security in New Zealand achieved what it set out to do?" The paper considers this developing jurisprudence and any implications of these decisions for financial reporting when the going concern assumption is under question.

Keywords: North America Article 9 Models, race horses, stallions, leasehold property, Saskatchewan, New Zealand, Personal Property Securities Act 1999

JEL Classification: M40, K12

Suggested Citation:

Keeper, Trish and Baskerville, Rachel F., A Generous Interpretation of Collateral (February 27, 2007). Business School, University of Exeter, Accounting Working Paper No. 06/08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1213733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1213733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Rex Ahdar
New Zealand Newsletter: Personal property securities in the courts: A new era begins
Australian Business Law Review , volume 32 , issue 5 Posted: 2004
Irene Chapple
High Court ruling sees top-class Glenmorgan sire awarded to finance company , p. 5 - 5 Posted: 2004
John H Farrar , A O&apos;regan
Reform of Personal Property Security Law
Preliminary Paper , issue 6 Posted: 1988
M Gedye , Ike
A Distant Export: The New Zealand Experience with a North American style Personal Property Security Regime
The Canadian Business Law Journal , volume 43 , issue 2 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,808
RANK
531,414
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies