Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dangerous, Dominant, Dependent, or Definitive: Stakeholder Identification when the Profession Faces Major Transgressions

Accounting and the Public Interest, Vol. 4, pp. 24-42, 2004

19 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2008 Last revised: 28 Dec 2009

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: February 27, 2004

Abstract

This study examines how professional associations respond to crisis situations. The theoretical concepts presented in a model of stakeholder saliency, developed by Mitchell Agle and Wood (1997), are applied in examining how the New Zealand Society of Accountants responded to a significant transgression situation. The embezzlement by John Graham, a chartered accountant, gave rise to significant pressure being brought to bear on the profession by various stakeholder groups. The Graham scandal is described using landmark transgression analysis (Nichols 1997). The stakeholder model is applied in identifying salient stakeholder groups, in describing their activities, and in analyzing the profession's response. The analysis identifies an unprecedented level of activity among the professional body's stakeholder groups and provides a framework useful in making sense of the New Zealand Society's actions as it attempted both to protect its reputation of acting in the public interest as well as serving the interests of its members.

Keywords: NZSA, transgression analysis, Mitchel Agle and Wood stakeholder model, accounting profession, Nichols 1997, John Graham

JEL Classification: M50

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., Dangerous, Dominant, Dependent, or Definitive: Stakeholder Identification when the Profession Faces Major Transgressions (February 27, 2004). Accounting and the Public Interest, Vol. 4, pp. 24-42, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1213962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
B R Agle , R K Mitchell , J A Sonnenfeld
Who matters to CEOs? An investigation of stakeholder attributes and salience, corporate performance, and CEO values
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
Crossref
K Allen
pursuit of professional dominance: Australian accounting 1953-1985. Accounting, Auditing and Accountability , volume 4 , p. 51 - 67 Posted: 1991
Crossref
C Booth
A long road to short legislation
Chartered Accountants Journal , p. 4 - 8 Posted: 1996-09
Notice of decision of the disciplinary committee
Fidelity Fund abolition advocated Posted: 1991-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,205
RANK
27,093
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Case Study of Stakeholder Identification and Prioritization by Managers

By Milena Parent and David L. Deephouse

A Framework for Stakeholder Analysis in ERP Project: A Case Study on SAP Implementation Using SNA (Social Network Analysis)

By Farzad Movahedi Sobhani

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies