Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Participation in Transfer Pricing: The Role of Affective and Cognitive Mechanisms

44 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2008

Shimin Chen

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Fei Pan

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Yue Wang

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Date Written: August 11, 2008

Abstract

This study examines how transfer pricing participation is related to satisfaction and organizational outcome. We propose and test a structural equation model that includes both direct and indirect links between participation and organizational outcome which is measured by transfer pricing effectiveness and firm performance. Based on the data collected from a cross-sectional survey of subsidiary/division managers in China and applying the structural equation modeling technique, we find that transfer pricing participation affects transfer pricing effectiveness not only directly but also indirectly through both affective and cognitive mechanisms as intervening variables. However, we do not find any direct impact of transfer pricing participation on firm performance. Transfer pricing participation affects performance only indirectly through affective and cognitive mechanisms. The findings of this study contribute to the accounting literature and enhance our understanding of participation behavior and its consequences in transfer pricing decisions.

Keywords: Transfer pricing, participation, China

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shimin and Pan, Fei and Wang, Yue, Participation in Transfer Pricing: The Role of Affective and Cognitive Mechanisms (August 11, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1216222 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1216222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Abdel-Halim , K M Rowland
Some personality determinants of participation: A further investigation
Personnel Psychology , volume 29 , p. 41 - 55 Posted: 1976
Crossref
J S Adams
Inequity in social exchange
Advances in experimental social psychology , volume 2 , p. 267 - 299 Posted: 1965
Crossref
W P Anthony
Participative management Posted: 1978
R Bagozzi , Y Yi
On the evaluation of structural equation models
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , volume 16 , p. 74 - 94 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,302
RANK
399,022
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies