Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pension Fund Regulation and Risk Management: Results from an Alm Optimisation Exercise

60 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2008

Juan Yermo

Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD)

Date Written: May 1, 2007

Abstract

This paper provides a stylised assessment of the impact of investment-relevant pension fund regulations and accounting rules on contribution and investment strategies within the context of an asset-liability model (ALM) specifically designed for this purpose. The analysis identifies a substantial impact of regulations which, in a simplified way, resemble those in place in Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, United Kingdom and the United States. The ALM model shows that regulations affect funding costs primarily through the choice of investment strategy. Strict funding regulations may force sponsors to make up funding shortfalls in bad economic times and lead them to invest more conservatively, which ultimately raises net funding costs. The paper also shows that fair value accounting standards (with immediate recognition of actuarial gains and losses) can contribute to higher funding levels than required by regulators.

Keywords: Pension funds, defined benefit, asset liability management, investment,

JEL Classification: G23, J32

Suggested Citation:

Yermo, Juan, Pension Fund Regulation and Risk Management: Results from an Alm Optimisation Exercise (May 1, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1217610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1217610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
trend is most conspicuous in the United Kingdom, where as many as 60% of all DB plans are now closed to new entrants while over 10% have also stopped accruals for existing employees Posted: 2010
For Germany
But the reader should keep in mind that it is only one in five available financing vehicles and accounts for roughly 20% of the German market for occupational pension plans
According to the actuarial consultant firm BodeHewitt AG & Co. KG
Smaller, not capital-market relevant companies can still apply the commercial code HGB, which also covers the 'Pensionskasse
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
499
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,072
RANK
130,025
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reforming the Valuation and Funding of Pension Promises: Are Occupational Pension Plans Safer?

By Juan Yermo

The Limits of Market-Based Risk Transfer and Implications for Managing Systemic Risks

By Todd Groome, Nicolas Blancher, ...

Aging, Asset Allocation, and Costs: Evidence for the Pension Fund Industry in Switzerland

By David S. Gerber and René Weber

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies