Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming the Valuation and Funding of Pension Promises: Are Occupational Pension Plans Safer?

OECD Working Paper No. 13

31 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2008

Juan Yermo

Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD)

Date Written: September 1, 2007

Abstract

This paper assesses current regulatory and accounting developments in the OECD area against their purported goals. It specifically considers the different approaches to valuing pension liabilities and questions the possibility of convergence between funding and business accountants' valuation standards for pension liabilities. It concludes that the trend towards market-based valuation methods in business accounting is not entirely consistent with the parallel exercise undertaken by many pension regulators. Since valuation methods for funding purposes are likely to continue moving towards a market-based model, policymakers should be all the more cautious in setting funding regulations so as to provide sufficient flexibility to pension funds in covering funding deficits while providing incentives to establish funding buffers in good economic times. We also argue that accounting rules and regulatory changes are driving plan design in some OECD countries such as Japan, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom and can lead to procyclical investment behaviour by pension funds.

Keywords: Pension funds, defined benefit, funding rules, investment, discount rates, accounting, valuation

JEL Classification: G18, G23, J32, M41, M43, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Yermo, Juan, Reforming the Valuation and Funding of Pension Promises: Are Occupational Pension Plans Safer? (September 1, 2007). OECD Working Paper No. 13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1217280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1217280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
P Antolín
Longevity risk and private pensions
OECD Working Paper on Insurance and Private Pensions , issue 3 Posted: 2007-01
Crossref
Understanding Companies' Pension Deficits: Occupational Defined-Benefit Schemes
Association of British Insurers , volume 3 Posted: 2007-03
L Bader , J Gold
Reinventing Pension Actuarial Science‖ , volume 14 Posted: 2003-01
S Blome , D Franzen , G Scheuenstuhl , J Yermo
Pension Fund Regulation and Risk Management: Results from an ALM Optimisation Exercise‖ Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,188
RANK
444,235
4 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Limits of Market-Based Risk Transfer and Implications for Managing Systemic Risks

By Todd Groome, Nicolas Blancher, ...

Aging, Asset Allocation, and Costs: Evidence for the Pension Fund Industry in Switzerland

By David S. Gerber and René Weber

How the Financial Crisis Affects Pensions and Insurance and Why the Impacts Matter

By Gregorio Impavido and Ian Tower

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies