Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Financial and Sustainability Reporting on the Web in Indonesia

22 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2008

Sasongko Budisusetyo

Perbanas School of Business Surabaya - Indonesia

Luciana Spica Almilia

Perbanas School of Business Surabaya - Indonesia

Date Written: August 12, 2008

Abstract

This study analyses the use of the internet to present financial and sustainability reporting by bank and LQ-45 companies listed in the Indonesian Stock Exchange. The internet disclosure index of 60 items is constructed and the index criteria are divided into four parts - content, timeliness, technology and user support. The content items divided into financial and sustainability reporting. The interesting finding is that advance of internet technology was not used by the companies to communicate financial and sustainability information to their stakeholders. There is a striking difference to the extent, to which the companies disclose their online financial and sustainability section. For example, some companies publish sustainability news releases and update their activities. In addition, many others show that not all of the firms listed in Indonesia stock exchange disclose sustainability reporting completely. However, the internet offer tremendous opportunities which are not yet fully exploited for reaching out a wide variety of stakeholders in Indonesia.

Keywords: internet, internet financial reporting, sustainability reporting

Suggested Citation:

Budisusetyo, Sasongko and Almilia, Luciana Spica, Exploring Financial and Sustainability Reporting on the Web in Indonesia (August 12, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1219449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1219449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Andreas Andrikopoulos , Nikolaos Diakidis , Nikolaos Diakidis
Financial Reporting Practices on the Internet: The Case of Companies Listed in the Cyprus Stock Exchange
Pages: 22 Posted: 10 Jul 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B M Craven , C L Marston
Financial Reporting on the Internet by Leading UK Companies , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 321 - 333 Posted: 1999
Crossref
H Davey , K Homkajohn
Corporate Internet Reporting: An Asian Example, Problems and Prespectives in Management , volume 2 , p. 211 - 227 Posted: 2004
D Deller , M Stunbenrath , C Weber
A Survey on the Use of the Internet for Investor Relations in the USA, the UK and Germany
The European Accounting Review , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 351 - 364 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
664
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,107
RANK
90,608
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Reporting on the Internet by Irish Companies

By Niamh M. Brennan and Denis Hourigan

Economic Consequences of Internet Financial Reporting

By Alfred Wagenhofer

Use of the Internet by Irish Companies for Investor Relations Purposes

By Niamh M. Brennan and Sorka Kelly

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies