Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Artistry of International Accounting Case Pedagogy

ENCYCLOPEDIA OF FINANCE RESEARCH, Chapter 30, Robert B. Geller, ed., Nova Science Publishers (2011)

Reprinted from INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING IN THE 21ST CENTURY, A. Solovyov and I. Kuznetsov, eds., Nova Science Publishers, 2010, pp.305-308. ISBN:978-1-60876-018-3

4 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2008 Last revised: 19 Dec 2018

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Date Written: January 12, 2008

Abstract

Although case pedagogy has frequently been associated with the Harvard Business School, one can trace the origins of the case-based reasoning to the Abrahamic monotheistic revealed scriptures (Christensen and Hansen, 1987, p.16). This paper elaborates on the case method in a graduate international accounting course designed for relatively mature students.

While the case approach can be used in almost in any course, it works best in a stylized setting where students have some work experience, so that they can make the most out of the cases. Case pedagogy demands that the instructor be flexible in terms of the format of the class so that depending on the case and the participants in the class, the direction of the discussion can vary. Since most well-written Harvard cases do not lend to one correct answer only, there is an ambiguity built into most cases by design that provides a basis for rich interaction among participants.

Case pedagogy is a self-reflective and time-consuming exercise that evolves over a period of time, both on the part of the instructor and the participants. It is an on-going process that never truly comes to an end, even though one's academic career may come to a logical end. Case teaching is not unlike what Nobel laureate Tagore once described the art of writing and completing a short story: 'shesh-hiya-o-hailana-shesh' (it is, as if, the story never came to an end, even though, of necessity it did) [original in Bengali followed by my translation]!

Keywords: Harvard Case, Abrahamic monotheistic religions, International, accounting, pedagogy, Ravindranath Tagore

JEL Classification: A00, A23, F00, G00, M10, M40, M41, M49, Z00, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H., The Artistry of International Accounting Case Pedagogy (January 12, 2008). ENCYCLOPEDIA OF FINANCE RESEARCH, Chapter 30, Robert B. Geller, ed., Nova Science Publishers (2011), Reprinted from INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING IN THE 21ST CENTURY, A. Solovyov and I. Kuznetsov, eds., Nova Science Publishers, 2010, pp.305-308. ISBN:978-1-60876-018-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1220722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
C R Christensen , A J Hansen
Teaching and the Case Method Boston Posted: 1987
E Herrigel
Zen in the Art of Archery New York: Vintage Books , p. 8 - 17 Posted: 1971
R Tagore
Chotae Galpa‖, Collected Works Calcutta Posted: 1969
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,232
RANK
291,291
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies