Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Telling Power of CCA - A New Zealand Oral History

Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 26, No. 1, pp. 1-26, 1999

Posted: 12 Aug 2008 Last revised: 15 Aug 2008

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: February 27, 1999

Abstract

This report present results of research on the failure of the inflation accounting standard in New Zealand in the early 1980s. Presentation of the results in three narratives highlight that any such research is a series of interlocking and overlapping events, and that narrative is a direct and efficient means of communicating both causal and transactional components which contributed towards the outcomes. In particular, this report examine the reasons provided by companies for non-compliance with the inflation accounting standard, compared with the views of standard setters as to why compliance was so low. The standard was later withdrawn. Isolation of the three narratives was chosen to demonstrate that it is not useful to extol an explanatory or interpretative paradigm for accounting history if it is advocated at the expense of sequential accounts of events.

Keywords: New Zealand, inflation accounting, oral history, current cost accounting

JEL Classification: M50

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., The Telling Power of CCA - A New Zealand Oral History (February 27, 1999). Accounting Historians Journal, Vol. 26, No. 1, pp. 1-26, 1999, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1220242
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
753
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies