Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sector-Neutral Accounting Standards: A Ten-year Experiment

Victoria University, Wellington, NZ, Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper No. 48

20 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2008

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

In 1992, New Zealand adopted a sector neutral approach to standard setting - where the difference in accounting treatment is driven by differences in the nature of transactions and not by ownership or the objectives of the reporting entity. In the process of adopting International Financial Reporting Standards, New Zealand standard setters are currently struggling to maintain sector neutrality in financial reporting because international standards are primarily developed for profit oriented entities. With the possible loss of sector neutral financial reporting, it is appropriate to review the outcome of ten-year experiment. In particular, we focus on the impact that transactions that are common to a number of public benefit entities have on accounting standards that apply to profit orientated entities. The results of this review may be useful to future standard setters and to the joint FASB/IASB convergence project.

Keywords: sector-neutral,sector bending, public sector, New Zealand, accounting standard setting, IFRS hamonisation

JEL Classification: M50

Suggested Citation:

Bradbury, Michael E. and Baskerville, Rachel F., Sector-Neutral Accounting Standards: A Ten-year Experiment (2007). Victoria University, Wellington, NZ, Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper No. 48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1220843 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1220843
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R N Anthony
The accounting concepts we need
Accounting Horizons , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 128 - 135 Posted: 1988
Recommendations on disclosure of nonfinancial performance measures
Accounting Horizons , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 351 - 362 Posted: 2002
A Barton
Public and private sector accounting -The non­identical twins
Australian Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 22 - 31 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Barton
Public­sector accounting: A common reporting framework? A rejoinder
Australian Accounting Review , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 41 - 45 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Kathryn Trewavas , Nives Botica Redmayne , Fawzi Laswad
The Impact of IFRS Adoption on Public Sector Financial Statements
Australian Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 86 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Bruno Marsigalia , Renato Giovannini
Sector neutrality: A possible improvement of the accounting standards. Evidence from NZ model
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 73 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
510
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,827
RANK
126,595
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Charity Financial Reporting Regulation: A Comparative Study of the UK and New Zealand

By Carolyn J. Cordery and Rachel F. Baskerville

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies