Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Considerations in the Decision of Chinese SOEs to List in Hong Kong

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

Posted: 14 Aug 2008 Last revised: 7 Oct 2011

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

T.J. Wong

University of Sothern California

Tianyu Zhang

City University of Hong Kong (CityUHK) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates why Chinese state-owned enterprises (SOEs) with strong political connections (i.e., politically connected firms) are more likely to list overseas than non-politically connected firms. We find that connected firms’ post-overseas listing performance is worse than that of non-connected firms. This evidence suggests that connected firms’ managers list their firms overseas for private (political) benefits. Consistent with this private benefits explanation, we further find that connected firms’ managers are more likely to receive political media coverage or a promotion to a senior government position subsequent to overseas listing than domestic listing.

Keywords: Partial privatization, China, Overseas listing, Political connection

JEL Classification: G34, L33, P31

Suggested Citation:

Hung, Mingyi and Wong, T.J. and Zhang, Tianyu, Political Considerations in the Decision of Chinese SOEs to List in Hong Kong (October 2011). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1224162
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,208
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies