Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Foreign Firms Leave U.S. Equity Markets?

NBER Working Paper No. w14245

63 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2008 Last revised: 5 Jun 2022

Craig Doidge

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

George Andrew Karolyi

Cornell University - SC Johnson College of Business; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

René M. Stulz

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2008

Abstract

This paper investigates Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) deregistrations by foreign firms from the time the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) was passed in 2002 through 2008. We test two theories, the bonding theory and the loss of competitiveness theory, to understand why foreign firms leave U.S. equity markets and how deregistration affects their shareholders. Firms that deregister grow more slowly, need less capital, and experience poor stock return performance prior to deregistration compared to other foreign firms listed in the U.S. that do not deregister. Until the SEC adopted Exchange Act Rule 12h-6 in 2007 the deregistration process was extremely difficult for foreign firms. Easing these procedures led to a spike in deregistration activity in the second-half of 2007 that did not extend into 2008. We find that deregistrations are generally associated with adverse stock-price reactions, but these reactions are much weaker in 2007 than in other years. It is unclear whether SOX affected foreign-listed firms and deregistering firms adversely in general, but there is evidence that the smaller firms that deregistered after the adoption of Rule 12h-6 reacted more negatively to announcements that foreign firms would not be exempt from SOX. Overall, the evidence supports the bonding theory rather than the loss of competitiveness theory: foreign firms list shares in the U.S. in order to raise capital at the lowest possible cost to finance growth opportunities and, when those opportunities disappear, a listing becomes less valuable to corporate insiders and they go home if they can. But when they do so, minority shareholders typically lose.

Suggested Citation:

Doidge, Craig and Karolyi, George Andrew and Stulz, Rene M., Why Do Foreign Firms Leave U.S. Equity Markets? (August 2008). NBER Working Paper No. w14245, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1231693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Philip G Berger , Feng Li , Franco Wong
The impact of Sarbanes-Oxley on cross-listed companies, working paper Posted: 2005
John J Binder
On the use of the multivariate regression model in event studies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , p. 370 - 383 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Stephen J Brown , Jerold B Warner
Using daily stock returns: the case of event studies
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 14 , p. 3 - 31 Posted: 1985
Vidhi Chhaochharia , Yaniv Grinstein
Corporate governance and firm value: the impact of the 2002 governance rules
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 1789 - 1825 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
16 Citations
Hans Bonde Christensen , Luzi Hail , Christian Leuz
Capital-Market Effects of Securities Regulation: Prior Conditions, Implementation, and Enforcement
NBER Working Paper No. w16737 · 80 Pages · Posted: 31 Jan 2011 · Last revised: 27 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 141
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chiara Banti , Gary C. Biddle , Jonathan Jona
Does a Liability of Foreignness in Liquidity Apply to US IPOs?
Banti, Chiara and Biddle, Gary C. and Jona, Jonathan, Does a Liability of Foreignness in Liquidity Apply to US IPOs? Accounting and Business Research (forthcoming). · 50 Pages · Posted: 19 Sep 2017 · Last revised: 14 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 273
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vidhan K. Goyal , Daniel Urban , Wenting Zhao
Index Creation, Information Changes, and Financing
88 Pages · Posted: 30 Oct 2017 · Last revised: 20 May 2025 · Downloads: 575
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Igor Filatotchev , Jonathan Jona , Gilad Livne
Earnings Management in Domestic and Foreign IPOs in the United States: Do Home Country Institutions Matter?
European Accounting Review · 51 Pages · Posted: 3 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 26 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 98
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,988
RANK
66,914
16 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies