Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Remuneration: Structure and Levels

Posted: 19 Aug 2008

Julie K. Walker

University of Queensland - Business School

Date Written: August 17, 2008

Abstract

This paper provides evidence about CEO remuneration structure and levels, as well as key CEO and board attributes, for a large sample of listed Australian firms during the 2004-2006 period. As such it provides recent evidence about how Australian executives are rewarded and permits observation of the key variables that influence the payment of cash and equity incentives to top management. The evidence presented here indicates that there is diversity in remuneration practice across Australian firms and that the level and structure of CEO compensation differs across firm size and industry. Disclosures over the study period also indicate a trend towards more formalised performance hurdles for the cash bonus and equity-based components of pay, possibly as a consequence of regulatory focus on the executive pay-performance relationship.

Keywords: remuneration, corporate governance, disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M52, J33

Suggested Citation:

Walker, Julie K., CEO Remuneration: Structure and Levels (August 17, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1232722
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,825
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies