Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalisation, Tax Competition and the Harmonisation of Corporate Tax Rates in Europe: A Case of Killing the Patient to Cure the Disease?

24 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2008

Killian J. McCarthy

University of Groningen - SOM Research School

Frederik van Doorn

Utrecht University - School of Law

Brigit Unger

Utrecht University - School of Economics

Date Written: May 2008

Abstract

This paper surveys the literature on tax competition, and uses it to analyse current European proposals to harmonise corporate tax rates. It begins, in the course of Section One, by introducing the phenomenon of international tax competition, and illustrates, with the use of secondary research, the reality of the regulatory 'race to the bottom'. Section Two, however, demonstrates the harmful consequences of tax competition - with reference to the immobile factors of production - and makes obvious the necessity of effective intervention. Section Three then introduces and evaluates the calibre of the current proposals to tackle tax competition through collusion and harmonisation, and concludes negatively in the process. As illustrated in this discussion, any efforts to harmonise corporate taxes above the international equilibrium will not only fail to solve the problem at hand, but will exacerbate them, and may even serve to undermine and destabilise the political Union. Section Four then introduce an alternative solution to the problem - in the form of the residence principle - and Section Five concludes.

Keywords: International Competition, Europe, Public Finance, Taxation, Regulation

JEL Classification: E62, E65, F41, F42, H26, H87, O52

Suggested Citation:

McCarthy, Killian J. and van Doorn, Frederik and Unger, Brigit, Globalisation, Tax Competition and the Harmonisation of Corporate Tax Rates in Europe: A Case of Killing the Patient to Cure the Disease? (May 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1243809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1243809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert , S Newlon
Has U.S. Investment Abroad Become More Sensitive to Tax Rates?
International Taxation and Multinational Activity Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Anderson , J Cavanagh ; P , M P Espinosa
The Rise of Corporate Global Power, Institute for Policy Studies, Working Paper Bacchetta
Journal of International Economics , volume 39 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 1995
R Baldwin , P Krugman
Agglomeration, Integration and Tax Harmonization, NBER Working Paper 9290 Posted: 2002
R Baldwin , C Wyplosz
The Economics of European Integration Posted: 2004
Load more
1 Citations
Nikolai Milogolov
How Do International Tax Planning Motives Impact Tax Policy in the Developed, Emerging, and Financial Hub Jurisdictions?
41 Pages · Posted: 17 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 72
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,858
RANK
331,643
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Tax Competition and Gains from Tax Harmonization

By Assaf Razin and Efraim Sadka

International Tax Competition and Gains from Tax Harmonization

By Assaf Razin and Efraim Sadka

Optimal Factor Income Taxation in the Presence of Unemployment

By Erkki Koskela and Ronnie Schöb

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies