Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Fair Value Accounting and Information Asymmetry: Evidence from the European Real Estate Industry

Management Science, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2008 Last revised: 13 Jun 2011

Karl A. Muller

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Eddie Riedl

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 28, 2011

Abstract

We examine the effects of mandating the provision of fair value information for long-lived tangible assets on firms’ information asymmetry. Specifically, we investigate whether European real estate firms’ compulsory adoption of International Accounting Standard 40 - Investment Property (IAS 40), which mandated the provision of investment property fair values in 2005, resulted in reduced information asymmetry across market participants. Using as a control group firms that voluntarily provided these fair values prior to the mandatory adoption of IAS 40, we find that mandatory adoption firms exhibit a larger decline in information asymmetry, as reflected in lower bid-ask spreads. However, we also find that mandatory adoption firms continue to have higher information asymmetry than voluntary adoption firms, which appears partially attributable to the lower reliability of fair values reported by the mandatory adoption firms. Together, this evidence adds to the debate on fair value accounting by demonstrating that common adoption of fair value, even for long-lived tangible assets, under a mandatory reporting regime can reduce, but not necessarily eliminate, information asymmetry differences across firms.

Keywords: fair value, disclosure, IFRS, information asymmetry, investment property

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, D82, L85

Suggested Citation:

Muller, Karl A. and Riedl, Edward J. and Sellhorn, Thorsten, Mandatory Fair Value Accounting and Information Asymmetry: Evidence from the European Real Estate Industry (February 28, 2011). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1244662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010-01
Crossref
R Ball
Making Accounting More International, How, and How Far Will It Go?
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 19 - 29 Posted: 1995
Crossref
__________
International Financial Reporting Standards: Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,833
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,198
RANK
10,617
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies