Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Egyptian Listed Companies Reporting on Intellectual Capital

The International Conference on "Economic Directions III: Economic Policy in a Rapidly Changing World", the College of Business Administration, Kuwait University, Kuwait, December 16-17, 2008

Posted: 24 Aug 2008 Last revised: 30 Dec 2009

Tariq Hassaneen Ismail

Faculty of Commerce

Date Written: August 23, 2008

Abstract

This study examines voluntary intellectual capital reporting (ICR) in Egyptian companies' annual reports with a view to understanding ICR practice as well as eliciting the barriers that might impact the development and implementation of IC indicators in Egyptian setting.

The study is an exploratory in nature and based on analysing primary data to examine the extent to which the CASE 30 Egyptian listed companies are adopting methodologies for reporting intellectual capital (IC) in their annual reports as of December 31, 2007. Furthermore, an empirical survey was carried out to test the usefulness of IC indicators in decisions and shed light on possible barriers that might impact IC indicators development and implementation. The reason for choosing this approach in this stage of research is the lack of research that deals with this particular issue in the Egyptian context.

The results indicate that significant differences in market and book values of the CASE 30 Egyptian companies were found. Levels of voluntary disclosure of IC items are relatively low while disclosures are dominated by customer relations items. Additionally, the disclosures are in qualitative rather than quantitative style. The most important barriers that might impact the development and implementation of IC are cost and time associated with developing IC indicators. Furthermore, the results suggest the need for further developments in Egyptian accounting standards to take into account IC disclosure in annual reports of companies.

This paper makes an original contribution to the growing body of empirical studies on IC reporting in Western studies in developed countries and describes the usefulness of IC reporting in Egypt. The study contributes to the body of research done in this area, as most of research has been conducted in developed countries such as the UK, Scandinavia, Austria, Canada, and the USA. There is a lack of empirical research at organizational level in the field of intellectual capital in Egypt, which is, socially, economically and culturally different from developed countries. The results of the study provide directions towards building a strong knowledge base for future intellectual capital development.

Keywords: Intellectual capital, Intellectual capital reporting, Cairo and Alexandria Stock Exchange, Annual reports, the CASE 30 companies, Egyptian Accounting Standards

JEL Classification: M41, M45, O16, M14, M40, M46, C19, C42, L25

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Tariq Hassaneen, Egyptian Listed Companies Reporting on Intellectual Capital (August 23, 2008). The International Conference on "Economic Directions III: Economic Policy in a Rapidly Changing World", the College of Business Administration, Kuwait University, Kuwait, December 16-17, 2008 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1248773
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,534
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies