Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Stock Option Grants to Directors of State-Controlled Chinese Firms Listed in Hong Kong Genuine Compensation?

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2008 Last revised: 21 Feb 2013

Zhihong Chen

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Yuyan Guan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Date Written: January 19, 2013

Abstract

We examine the determinants and consequences of stock option compensation to directors of state-controlled Chinese firms that are incorporated outside China and listed in Hong Kong, referred to as state-controlled Red Chip firms, over the period 1990-2005. We find that state-controlled Red Chip firms granted directors a significant number of stock options in response to the demand of foreign investors. However, state-controlled Red Chip firms forced the directors to forfeit a significant percentage of their vested in-the-money stock options due to a conflict between the high-powered stock option compensation and state-controlled Red Chip firms’ unique managerial labor market. We find little evidence that directors’ stock option compensation changed the behavior of state-controlled Red Chip firms. Overall, our results are consistent with the media’s allegation that the stock options granted to directors of many, if not all, state-controlled Red Chip firms are not genuine compensation.

Keywords: China, shareholder value, stock option compensation, corporate governance, state-controlled firms

JEL Classification: D21, G32, J33, M40, N25

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhihong and Guan, Yuyan and Ke, Bin, Are Stock Option Grants to Directors of State-Controlled Chinese Firms Listed in Hong Kong Genuine Compensation? (January 19, 2013). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1249526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1249526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
Executive stock-based compensation and firms' cash payout: The role of shareholders' tax-related payout preferences
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 216 - 251 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B M Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting abnormal operating performance: the empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 41 , p. 359 - 400 Posted: 1996
Crossref
E Bartov , P Mohanram
Private information, earnings manipulations, and executive stock-option exercises
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 889 - 920 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L Bebchuk , J Fried
Pay without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
808
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,811
RANK
70,096
6 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies