Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accruals and the Performance of Stock Returns Following External Financing Activities

The British Accounting Review, Vol. 43, pp. 214-229, 2011

Posted: 26 Aug 2008 Last revised: 6 Aug 2011

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Dimitrios Thomakos

University of Athens, Department of Business Administration

Tao Wang

City University of New York (CUNY) - Department of Economics

Date Written: January 25, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates the relation of the external financing anomaly with the accrual anomaly, by focusing separately on working capital accruals and long-term accruals. We find that external financing and accrual hedge portfolios not only generate superior returns, but they also constitute statistical arbitrage opportunities. Portfolio-level analysis and firm-level cross-sectional regressions show that the ability of external financing measures in predicting future returns remains strong, after controlling for working capital accruals. However, this ability is substantially reduced after controlling for long-term accruals. Our results appear to be consistent with investors’ failure to recognise opportunistic earnings management and/or agency related overinvestment.

Keywords: External financing activities, accruals, stock returns

JEL Classification: G10, M4

Suggested Citation:

Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A. and Thomakos, Dimitrios and Wang, Tao, Accruals and the Performance of Stock Returns Following External Financing Activities (January 25, 2011). The British Accounting Review, Vol. 43, pp. 214-229, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1253783
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,800
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies