Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and the Cost of Capital: An International Analysis

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2008 Last revised: 26 Jun 2015

Xi Li

London School of Economics; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: May 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines the role of conditional accounting conservatism in mitigating the cost of equity and debt capital in an international setting. I find that firms domiciled in countries with more conservative financial reporting systems have lower cost of equity and debt capital. I further explore the cross-sectional variation of the above relations. I find that the negative association between conditional conservatism and the cost of equity and debt capital is more pronounced in countries with stronger legal enforcement, suggesting a complementary role between conservatism and legal institutions in capital markets. I also find that conservatism only reduces the cost of debt in countries where accounting-based covenants are widely used, consistent with the argument that conditional conservatism improves the efficiency of debt contracts via accelerating covenant violations.

Keywords: Cost of debt, Cost of equity, Conditional conservatism, Legal enforcement

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G12, F00, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xi, Accounting Conservatism and the Cost of Capital: An International Analysis (May 1, 2015). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1261971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1261971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Albuquerque , N Wang
Agency conflicts, investment, and asset pricing
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the predictions of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,710
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,504
RANK
23,758
17 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies