Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Diversification and Conference Calls: Legal System and Ownership Structure

Posted: 9 Sep 2008

Chen-lung Chin

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Yu-Ju Chen

Asia University

Date Written: September 8, 2008

Abstract

A firm's international diversification is one potentially important strategy to follow in pursuit of growth in merging markets as well as developed countries. This paper explores the impact of international diversification on the decision to hold conference calls. Next, we examine if the mitigating roles of agency problems and firm' choice of a higher proportion of common law countries in holding conference calls. The agency problems is proxied by the divergence between controlling owner's control and cash rights; the internationalization is measured by the ratio of foreign assets to total assets, foreign operational country scope, and by the number of foreign investees, respectively. Using a sample drawn from Taiwan, we find that greater corporate internationalization is associated with a higher likelihood of holding conference calls. We also find that firms can enhance the positive effects of internationalization on conference calls likelihood by reducing control divergence of controlling owners or investing in a higher proportion of common law countries where there is a better investor legal protection environment and higher information transparency. Finally, we find that in addition to stock pyramids and cross-ownership structures, managers of internationally diversified firms use stock collateral to leverage their control rights, which exacerbates agency problem and lead to a lower likelihood of holding conference calls.

Keywords: Internationalization, Conference calls, Control rights, Legal system

JEL Classification: M41, N40

Suggested Citation:

Chin, Chen-lung and Chen, Yu-Ju, International Diversification and Conference Calls: Legal System and Ownership Structure (September 8, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1264903
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,601
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies