Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandatory IFRS Adoption Improve the Information Environment?

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 30, No. 1: 388-423.

57 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2008 Last revised: 19 Jul 2013

Joanne Horton

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Ioanna Serafeim

Capital Market Commission

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

More than 120 countries require or permit the use of International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) by publicly listed companies on the basis of higher information quality and accounting comparability from IFRS application. However, the empirical evidence about these presumed benefits are often conflicting and fail to separate between information quality and comparability. In this paper we examine the effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on firms’ information environment. We find that after mandatory IFRS adoption consensus forecast errors decrease for firms that mandatorily adopt IFRS relative to forecast errors of other firms. We also find decreasing forecast errors for voluntary adopters, but this effect is smaller and not robust. Moreover, we show that the magnitude of the forecast errors decrease is associated with the firm-specific differences between local GAAP and IFRS. This finding suggests that it is IFRS adoption rather than a correlated unobservable factor that is causing forecast errors to decrease. Exploiting individual analyst level data and isolating settings where analysts would benefit more from either increased comparability or higher quality information, we document that the improvement in the information environment is driven both by information and comparability effects. These results suggest that mandatory IFRS adoption has improved the quality of information intermediation in capital markets and as a result firms’ information environment by increasing both information quality and accounting comparability.

Keywords: IFRS, analysts, information environment, comparability, information quality

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G14, G15, G29

Suggested Citation:

Horton, Joanne and Serafeim, George and Serafeim, Ioanna, Does Mandatory IFRS Adoption Improve the Information Environment? (2013). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 30, No. 1: 388-423., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1264101 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1264101
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Armstrong , M E Barth , A Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to events surrounding the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standard, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,078
ABSTRACT VIEWS
25,314
RANK
4,122
31 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies