Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Credibility, Ownership, and Financing Constraints in Private Firms

AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

49 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2008 Last revised: 19 Mar 2011

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Dushyantkumar Vyas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Date Written: March 18, 2011

Abstract

As shown in the international business literature, the ability of controlling owners to extract private benefits is greater in countries with weaker legal institutions. In these countries, providing credible financial information could play an especially important role in reducing information asymmetry between private firms and external providers of finance. For our sample of firms across 68 countries, we find that firms with greater financial reporting credibility (i.e., annual financial statements reviewed by an external auditor) experience significantly lower perceived problems in gaining access to external finance. Further, the impact of financial credibility in reducing financing constraints in the presence of a controlling owner is more pronounced in countries with weaker creditor rights. Given the predominance of private firms around the world, their economic significance, and the fact that an increasing number of private firms now operate in multinational environments with different institutional features, we contribute to the literature on the role of financial information, firm characteristics, and country-level institutions for an important and interesting group of firms.

Keywords: Financing constraints, financial credibility, ownership concentration, private companies, international, institutional environment, auditing

JEL Classification: G15, F23, F30, G30, G32, M41, M43, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Thomas, Wayne B. and Vyas, Dushyantkumar, Financial Credibility, Ownership, and Financing Constraints in Private Firms (March 18, 2011). AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1264730 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1264730
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
C Doidge , A Karolyi , R Stulz
Why Do Countries Matter So Much For Corporate Governance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 86 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2007
J D&apos;souza , J Jacob , K Ramesh
The use of accounting flexibility to reduce labor renegotiation costs and manage earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 187 - 208 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Durnev , V Errunza , A Molchanov
Property rights protection, corporate transparency, and growth
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 40 , p. 1533 - 1562 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Dyck , L Zingales
Private benefits of control: An international comparison
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 537 - 600 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
975
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,765
RANK
54,237
23 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does the Stock Market Harm Investment Incentives?

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Comparing the Investment Behavior of Public and Private Firms

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Does Public Ownership of Equity Improve Earnings Quality?

By Dan Givoly, Carla Hayn, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies