Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms Adjust Their Timely Loss Recognition in Response to Changes in the Banking Industry?

Journal of Accounting Research, 2012, 50(1), pp. 159-196.

AFA 2010 Atlanta Meetings Paper

59 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2008 Last revised: 17 Jun 2014

Todd A. Gormley

Washington University in St. Louis; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Bong Hwan Kim

Seoul National University

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Date Written: July 13, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of changes in the banking sector on firms’ timely recognition of economic losses. In particular, we focus on the entry of foreign banks into India during the 1990s, which likely causes an exogenous increase in lender demand for timely loss recognition. Analyzing variation in both the timing and the location of the new foreign banks’ entries, we find that foreign bank entry is associated with more timely loss recognition and this increase is positively related to a firm’s subsequent debt levels. The change appears driven by a shift in firms’ incentives to supply additional information to lenders and lenders seem to value this information. The increase in timely loss recognition is also concentrated among firms more dependent on external financing: private firms, smaller firms, and non-group firms. Overall, our evidence suggests that a firm’s accounting choices respond to changes in the banking industry.

Keywords: Bank Entry, Information, Timely Loss Recognition, India

JEL Classification: D82, G21, O16, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gormley, Todd A. and Kim, Bong Hwan and Martin, Xiumin, Do Firms Adjust Their Timely Loss Recognition in Response to Changes in the Banking Industry? (July 13, 2011). Journal of Accounting Research, 2012, 50(1), pp. 159-196., AFA 2010 Atlanta Meetings Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1265109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Anwer S. Ahmed , Bruce K. Billings , Richard M. Morton
Extreme Accruals, Earnings Quality, and Investor Mispricing
Pages: 50 Posted: 11 May 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
And M Harris
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-Shareholder Conflicts over Dividend Policy and in Reducing Debt Costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Unpublished manuscript. Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Posted: 2007
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,688
RANK
149,881
27 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies