Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Predictive Role of Analyst Coverage Intensity: Evidence from Cross-Listing in the U.S.

39 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ira S. Weiss

University of Chicago - Graduate School of Business; Columbia Business School - Department of Accounting

Lin Zheng

Mercer University-Atlanta

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 7, 2007

Abstract

This paper investigates financial analysts' predictive power of future performance and earnings quality, based on their selective coverage of firms that have recently cross-listed into the U.S. This setting is useful for examining these questions because, following cross-listing, firms often experience an increase in analyst coverage and an improvement in their information environment. We find that analyst coverage is positively related to analysts' expectation about firms' future performance and negatively related to analysts' concern over firms' earnings quality. Furthermore, country-level legal origin and disclosure index are two significant determinants of analyst coverage of cross-listed firms. In addition, the intensity of analyst coverage can predict future abnormal stock price performance. Our latter finding augments those in Das, Guo, and Zhang (2006), who investigate the predictive role of analyst coverage following IPOs. The benefit of our setting is that, unlike the post-IPO period, cross-listing firms do not appear to experience mis-pricing that might confound the results. Overall, our study further documents the substantial informational benefits to cross-listing, but suggests that these informational benefits may not be complete, since financial analysts appear to have predictive power and selectively provide coverage for firms with favorable future prospects.

Keywords: Analysts' selective coverage, cross-listed firms, legal institutions, earnings quality

JEL Classification: M41, G14,G15

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Weiss, Ira Samuel and Weiss, Ira Samuel and Zheng, Lin, The Predictive Role of Analyst Coverage Intensity: Evidence from Cross-Listing in the U.S. (May 7, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1265161 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1265161
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J Bacmann , G Bolliger
Who are the best? Local versus foreign analysts on the Latin American stock markets. Working paper Posted: 2001
K H Bae , R M Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts Posted: 2005
Crossref
H K Baker , J R Nofsinger , D G Weaver
International cross listing and visibility
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 37 , p. 495 - 521 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Barniv , M Myring , W B Thomas
The association between the legal and financial reporting environments and forecast performance of individual analysts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 727 - 758 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,428
RANK
293,720
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies