Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Industry Concentration on the Market's Ability to Anticipate Future Earnings: International Evidence

International Journal of Accounting and Information Management, Vol. 24, No. 4, 2016

Posted: 11 Sep 2008 Last revised: 9 Feb 2017

In-Mu Haw

Texas Christian University - M.J. Neeley School of Business

Bingbing Hu

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Woody Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 3, 2016

Abstract

The existing literature has established the importance of industry concentration in explaining firm performance and information environments. However, little is known about whether and how industry concentration affects investors’ ability to anticipate future earnings. Our study investigates this query by identifying and testing two channels, (1) product market power and (2) intra-industry information transfer, through which industry concentration affects the informativeness of stock returns about future earnings (proxied by the future earnings response coefficient [FERC]). Using a firm-level sample from 38 economies, we find that industry concentration significantly enhances investors’ ability to predict future earnings. Further tests show that both product market power and intra-industry information transfer contribute to explaining the positive association between industry concentration and the FERC, with the former playing a more salient role. Finally, we show that a country’s effective competition law attenuates the positive impact of industry concentration on the FERC by weakening the economic impact of the two underlying channels. Our study contributes to the growing literature on the price-leading-earnings relation, industry concentration, and international corporate governance.

Keywords: industry concentration, future earnings response coefficient (FERC), product market power, intra-industry information transfer, competition laws

JEL Classification: F30, G15, L11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Haw, In-Mu and Hu, Bingbing and Lee, Jay Junghun and Wu, Woody Y., The Impact of Industry Concentration on the Market's Ability to Anticipate Future Earnings: International Evidence (August 3, 2016). International Journal of Accounting and Information Management, Vol. 24, No. 4, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1265972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1265972
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,033
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies