Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does International Corporate Diversification Improve Share Capitalization and Operating Performance? An Empirical Perspective*

47 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008

Kingsley O. Olibe

Kansas State University

William Strawser

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Awni Zebda

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 8, 2008

Abstract

We examine the relation between international diversification and three measures of performance - share price, operating accounting income, and operating cash flows. As predicted, we find that foreign assets of U.S. firms are positively associated with price, implying that investors recognize the overseas content of firm's activities and use this information in determining value. The result suggests that when firms internationalize, firm values are higher. We also find that international diversification is an incremental determinant of operating income and operating cash flows, indicating that international operations are successful path to higher operating performance. More importantly, we find strong evidence that foreign asset coefficient increases with the introduction of SFAS 131. Such findings lend credence to the position of the AICPA (1994) and AIRM (1993) that geographic segment data increases investors' awareness and valuation of the information disclosed in accordance with SFAS No. 131.

JEL Classification: G15, G12, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Olibe, Kingsley O. and Strawser, William and Zebda, Awni, Does International Corporate Diversification Improve Share Capitalization and Operating Performance? An Empirical Perspective* (September 8, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1265323 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1265323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Reevaluation of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from U.K
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
T Amemiya
Advanced Econometrics Posted: 1985
AICPA). 1994. Improving Business Reporting-A customer Focus: A Comprehensive Report of the Special Committee on Financial Reporting
American Institute of Accountants Posted: 1934
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,927
RANK
487,221
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies