Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-GAAP Financial Disclosures: Evidence from European Firms' Press Releases

AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting

32 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008 Last revised: 17 Sep 2008

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: September 11, 2008

Abstract

A growing stream of academic literature studies non-GAAP financial measures in the United States, where the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Regulation G. However, there is no rule in Europe to regulate these voluntary disclosures. We investigate the disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures by European firms, using hand-collected data on the reporting practices of the largest European firms for the fiscal years 2003 to 2005. Our findings reveal that the disclosure of EBIT/EBITDA is much more common in Europe than in the US. Furthermore, the average number of non-GAAP financial measures per press release, when these disclosures occur, is 3. What measures are disclosed and how much emphasis is given to them varies based on several firms' characteristics: size, performance, leverage, corporate governance practices, country and industry affiliation. Finally, only 35% of the non-GAAP financial measures are explained by managers, but that this percentage has been growing.

Keywords: non-GAAP financial measures, pro forma earnings, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M45, G34, G38, M47

Suggested Citation:

Isidro, Helena and Marques, Ana Cristina, Non-GAAP Financial Disclosures: Evidence from European Firms' Press Releases (September 11, 2008). AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1266667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1266667
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Reena Aggarwal , Rohan G. Williamson
Did New Regulations Target the Relevant Corporate Governance Attributes?
Pages: 43 Posted: 1 Dec 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Allee , N Bhattacharya , E Black , T Christensen
Pro forma disclosure and investor sophistication: external validation of experimental evidence using archival data" Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 201 - 222 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P Alves , W Beekes , S Young
A comparison of UK firms' financial statement data from six sources Posted: 2007
Load more
4 Citations
Joerg-Markus Hitz
Press Release Disclosure of ‘Pro Forma’ Earnings Metrics by Large German Corporations – Empirical Evidence and Regulatory Recommendations
Accounting in Europe , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 63 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Welc Jacek
EBITDA vs. Cash Flows in Bankruptcy Prediction on the Polish Capital Market
European Financial and Accounting Journal , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 91 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Jörg-Markus Hitz
Information versus adverse Anlegerbeeinflussung: Befund und Implikationen der empirischen Rechnungswesenforschung zur Publizität von Pro-forma-Ergebnisgrößen
Journal für Betriebswirtschaft , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 127 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Joerg-Markus Hitz
Information Versus Strategic Reporting: Determinants of the Disclosure of Pro Forma Earnings by Large German Corporations
46 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2010 · Downloads: 355
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
887
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,806
RANK
61,872
4 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Gaap Versus the Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings

By Mark T Bradshaw, Matthew Moberg, ...

The Predictive Value of Expenses Excluded from 'Pro Forma' Earnings

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Russell J. Lundholm, ...

Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings

By Neil Bhattacharya, Ervin L. Black, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies