Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Taxes in Compensation: A Case of Shareholder Expropriation

46 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2008 Last revised: 17 Nov 2008

Annita Florou

Bocconi University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 11, 2008

Abstract

In this paper I exploit a unique feature of the Greek institutional environment, whereby alternative cash compensation payments to directors are taxed differently from the point of view of both personal and corporate taxes. Specifically, board directors can receive cash compensation either in the form of taxable salary or in the form of tax-free profit distributions. Salary payments are deductible for corporate tax purposes whereas profit distributions are not, making a unit of profit distribution more costly to shareholders than a unit of salary. Ceteris paribus, rational directors prefer profit distribution to salary given that in the former case their personal taxes are paid by shareholders. Using this setting I document that board directors increase their net compensation by shifting their personal taxes to outside shareholders, who consequently earn lower after-tax income. Moreover, I show that profit distributions reduce shareholder value. Finally, I find that the degree of tax-shifting reduces as board ownership increases. This is particularly the case for family board members. Collectively, I show that the design of board compensation through profit distributions in Greece implies shareholder expropriation; this is in contrast with the findings of Aboody and Kasznik (2007), who document that the structure of executive stock-based compensation in the US helps to align the tax-related payout preferences of shareholders with the cash payout choices of managers. Similar to Aboody and Kasznik (2007) the study shows that taxes are a potentially important factor to be taken into account when analysing remuneration arrangements around the world.

Keywords: Taxes, executive compensation, board ownership

JEL Classification: G34, G38, G32, J33, H25, H24

Suggested Citation:

Florou, Annita, The Role of Taxes in Compensation: A Case of Shareholder Expropriation (November 11, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1266673 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1266673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
Executive stock-based compensation and firms' cash payout: the role of shareholders' tax-related payout preferences
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2007
Crossref
G Alifantis
Employee Salaries and Expenses Posted: 2002
G Alifantis
Distributed Earnings of Public and Limited Firms, 4 th edition Posted: 2003
M Allen
Power and privilege in the large corporation: corporate control and managerial compensation
American Journal of Sociology , volume 86 , issue 5 , p. 1112 - 1123 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,686
RANK
393,016
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies