Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in the Value Relevance of R&D Expenses after IFRS Adoption

Advances in Accounting, 2016, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2008 Last revised: 27 Sep 2016

James Jianxin Gong

California State University at Fullerton

I-Ling Wang

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 23, 2016

Abstract

We investigate whether the nature of differences between national GAAP and IFRS is associated with differential changes in the value relevance of R&D expenses after the adoption of IFRS across countries. Using a difference-in-differences study on a sample of public companies in nine countries that covers pre-IFRS and post-IFRS periods during 1997-2012, we find that the value relevance of R&D expenses declines after IFRS adoption in countries that previously mandated immediate expensing or allowed optional capitalization of R&D costs. On the contrary, there is no change in the value relevance of R&D expenses for countries that switched from the mandatory capitalization rule to IFRS. We also investigate the moderating effects of national institutions on the changes in the value relevance of R&D expenses after IFRS adoption. We find that in countries with stronger investor protection, the changes in the value relevance of R&D expenses are larger. In addition, changes in the value relevance of R&D expenses are smaller for countries whose national culture is characterized by higher uncertainty avoidance. Our findings highlight the importance of both accounting standards and national institutions in explaining the changes in the value relevance of accounting information after IFRS adoption.

Keywords: International Accounting; Accounting Standards; Value Relevance; R&D; Institutional Factors

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Gong, Jianxin and Wang, I-Ling, Changes in the Value Relevance of R&D Expenses after IFRS Adoption (May 23, 2016). Advances in Accounting, 2016, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1267249 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1267249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Accounting Standards Board (ASB). 1989. SSAP 13 Accounting for Research and Development
A Agami , N Monsen
An appraisal of efforts by the Nordic countries toward accounting standards harmonization
Journal of International Accounting & Taxation , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 185 - 203 Posted: 1995
Crossref
K Ahmed , H Falk
The value relevance of management's policy choice of research and development expenditure reporting: evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 264 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,644
RANK
370,049
5 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies