Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Individual CPA Sanction Improve Audit Quality of the Firm?

Posted: 16 Sep 2008

Chien-Heng Jennifer Chang

Tamkang University - Department of Accounting

Ling-Tai Lynette Chou

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - College of Commerce

Date Written: August 30, 2008

Abstract

It is instrumental for regulators and policy makers to know the impact of individual sanctions on improving audit quality of the entire firm because many countries in the world enforce disciplinary actions against individual auditors. This paper examines the improvement on audit quality of the firm after individual auditor disciplinary action and infers that both reputation effect and deterrent effect drive the other non-sanctioned fellow auditors to improve their quality thereafter. Using data from Taiwan, our empirical results show that the improvement on firm quality is found only in the Big N firm group, but not the non-Big N counterpart group, probably due to the stronger reputation effect existed in Big N firms. However, further tests on separate firm data find that not every Big N firm shows significant improvement on audit quality.

Keywords: CPA sanction, disciplinary actions, audit quality of the firm

JEL Classification: M49, M47, G38

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Chien-Heng Jennifer and Chou, Ling-Tai Lynette, Can Individual CPA Sanction Improve Audit Quality of the Firm? (August 30, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1268809
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies