Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and Stock Price Performance During Turbulent Financial Markets

AAA 2009 Financial Accounting & Reporting Section (FARS) Meeting

42 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2008 Last revised: 2 Jun 2024

Kurt A. Desender

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Business Administration

Mónica LópezPuertas-Lamy

Charles III University of Madrid

Date Written: February 1, 2010

Abstract

The objective of this study is to investigate the relationship between stock market performance and ownership structure during plummeting and soaring financial markets in a Continental-European setting. Our results show the importance of ownership concentration, the presence of secondary blockholders and the type of the controlling owner to explain stock price performance. In addition, the analysis shows that the results for extreme down markets are fundamentally different from the results for the up market. While ownership concentration is valued positively during down market periods, it is valued negatively during up market periods. The results of the study also have implications for policy makers, by showing that firms with concentrated ownership are less subjective to extreme market periods. To the extent that ownership concentration might contribute to the financial and economic stability of listed firms, this study provides empirical insights against regulations that could hamper the persistence of large controlling shareholders.

Keywords: Ownership concentration, Stock Price Performance, multiple blockholders, type of ownership

JEL Classification: G12, G15, G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Desender, Kurt A. and LópezPuertas-Lamy, Mónica, Ownership Structure and Stock Price Performance During Turbulent Financial Markets (February 1, 2010). AAA 2009 Financial Accounting & Reporting Section (FARS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1268278 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1268278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The Cross-National Diversity of Corporate Governance
Dimensions and Determinants. Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding Family Ownership, Corporate Diversification and Firm Leverage
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 46 Posted: 2003
C Andres
Large shareholders and firm performance-An empirical examination of founding-family ownership
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 431 - 445 Posted: 2008
J S Baek , J K Kang , K S Park
Corporate Governance and Firm Value: Evidence from the Korean Financial Crisis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 71 , p. 265 - 313 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,012
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,701
RANK
51,500
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies