Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CPA-Firm Merger: An Investigation of Audit Quality

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Sep 2008 Last revised: 15 Jun 2011

Taychang Wang

National Taiwan University

Chiawen Liu

National Taiwan University - Department of Accounting

Chien-Heng Jennifer Chang

Tamkang University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 17, 2008

Abstract

It would be interesting to know how the theories and hypotheses in auditing developed for a mature economy work in an emerging market. This paper uses the merger of Diwan, Ernst & Young and J. T. Lai & Co., CPAs in Taiwan in 2000 as a target to study the effects of a CPA-firm merger on audit quality, measured by the discretionary accruals. Diwan, Ernst & Young and J. T. Lai & Co., CPAs belonged to Big 5 and non-Big 5 CPA firms in Taiwan respectively before they merged. The magnitudes of the increased size and reputation caused by the merger are different between the two firms. Therefore, we also analyze whether the merger has different effects on audit quality of these two firms. The empirical evidence shows that after the merger, the discretionary accruals of the two firms’ clients significantly decrease. In addition, the magnitude of the change is greater for the clients of J. T. Lai & Co., CPAs than for those of Diwan, Ernst & Young. The results are consistent with predictions of both size and reputation effect hypotheses.

Keywords: CPA-firm merger, audit quality, discretionary accruals

JEL Classification: M49, M41, M43, M47, G34

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Taychang and Liu, Chiawen and Chang, Chien-Heng Jennifer, CPA-Firm Merger: An Investigation of Audit Quality (August 17, 2008). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1269486
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,599
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies