Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of an Ethics Presentation Used in America and Adapted for Italy: A Teaching Note

Accounting Education, Vol. 18, 2009

23 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2008 Last revised: 2 Oct 2008

Gheula Canarutto

Bocconi University

Katherine Taken Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Abstract

The purpose of this study is twofold: 1) to determine if an ethics presentation at an Italian university can change student perceptions of ethics; and 2) to compare results of this study with previously published results from US students. The ethics presentation, previously developed by Smith et al. (2005) for accounting and business classes, made available on the Internet, was adapted and used in classes in Italy. Like the US, Italy has faced significant financial scandals and corporate failures in recent years. Both Italian and US penal laws have been changed to prevent future financial frauds, but there are limits to what laws can accomplish. The ethics presentation described in this paper was an effort to encourage students to consider the importance of ethics. The impact of the presentation on Italian student perspectives is described. In addition, a comparison is made of the impact of the presentation in Italy and in the US, which shows that students in both countries regard ethics as a very important topic.

Keywords: ethics, ethical decision-making, accounting curriculum

JEL Classification: M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Canarutto, Gheula and Smith, Katherine Taken and Smith, Murphy, Impact of an Ethics Presentation Used in America and Adapted for Italy: A Teaching Note. Accounting Education, Vol. 18, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1272109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E C Ameen , D M Guffey , J J Mcmillan
Gender Differences in Determining Ethical Sensitivity of Future Accounting Professionals
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 15 , issue 5 , p. 591 - 597 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Warren G Bennis , O&quot;toole James
How Business Schools Lost their Way
Harvard Business Review , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 96 - 104 Posted: 2005
Johannes Brinkmann
Real Estate Agent Ethics: Selected Findings from Two Norwegian Studies
Business Ethics: A European Review , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 163 - 173 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Johannes Brinkmann
On Business Ethics and Moralism
Business Ethics: A European Review , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 311 - 319 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,321
RANK
280,691
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies