Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Accruals, Cash Flows, and Taxes on Earnings Management: Evidence from Chile and Malaysia

26 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2008

Sakthi Mahenthrian

Butler University

María Blanco

Universidad CEU San Pablo

David Cademartori

Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaiso

Date Written: September 23, 2008

Abstract

In January 2009, Chile will require its listed companies to adopt IFRS. Malaysia has a tradition of modifying the IFRS before adopting them. Chile's legal system is based on the French Civil Law tradition and Malaysia's legal system is based on the English common law tradition. Hence, this study investigates whether the listed firms in these two countries use deferred tax expenses to manage their earnings. It also studies the factors that affect the amount of deferred tax expenses reported. The study finds that beyond total accruals, deferred tax expenses are not incrementally useful to detect earnings management. Further, the amount recognized as deferred tax expenses is significantly associated with changes in operating cash flows, and in Chile, it is also related to the level of institutional ownership in listed firms.

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44, M47, H25, G32

Suggested Citation:

Mahenthrian, Sakthi and Blanco, María and Cademartori, David, Effects of Accruals, Cash Flows, and Taxes on Earnings Management: Evidence from Chile and Malaysia (September 23, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1272435 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1272435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Ball , P Kothari , S P , Robin , A
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Berle , G C Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
J W Byrd , K A Hickman
Do outside directors monitor managers? Evidence from tender offer bids
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 32 , p. 195 - 221 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,339
RANK
151,526
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies