Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does International Corporate Diversification Improve Share Capitalization and Operating Performance? An Empirical Perspective

AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting

48 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2008

Kingsley O. Olibe

Kansas State University

William Strawser

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 23, 2008

Abstract

We examine the relation between international diversification and three measures of performance-share price, operating accounting income, and operating cash flows. As predicted, we find that foreign assets of U.S. firms are positively associated with price, implying that investors recognize the overseas content of firm's activities and use this information in determining value. The result suggests that when firms internationalize, firm values are higher. We also find that international diversification is an incremental determinant of operating income and operating cash flows, indicating that international operations are successful path to higher operating performance. More importantly, we find strong evidence that foreign asset coefficient increases with the introduction of SFAS 131. Consistent with the AICPA (1994) and AIRM (1993) position, financial reporting can be improved by mandating accounting standards that evolved exogenously in different economies.

JEL Classification: G15, G12, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Olibe, Kingsley O. and Strawser, William, Does International Corporate Diversification Improve Share Capitalization and Operating Performance? An Empirical Perspective (September 23, 2008). AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1273724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1273724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,953
RANK
451,566
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies