Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The BBLR Approach to Tax Reform in Emerging Countries

28 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2008

Richard M. Bird

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September, 25 2008

Abstract

Fiscal experts have for years proposed a holy trinity of tax reform options for developing countries: broader bases, lower rates, and better administration. The review in this paper of fifty years of experience suggests that what might be called the BBLR approach - broader bases and lower rates - to tax structure reform holds up fairly well. Nonetheless, some qualifications to the basic BBLR approach are suggested and the continuing fundamental importance of understanding and improving tax administration is stressed.

Keywords: tax reform, tax bases, tax rates, tax administration

JEL Classification: H20, O23, P41

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Richard Miller, The BBLR Approach to Tax Reform in Emerging Countries (September, 25 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1273818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1273818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
E Auriol , M Warlters
Taxation Base in Developing Countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 89 , p. 625 - 671 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A J Auerbach , J R Hines , Jr
Taxation and Economic Efficiency , volume 3 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Bagchi , R M Bird , A Das-Gupta
An Economic Approach to Tax Administration Reform Posted: 1995-11
R W Bahl , R M Bird
Tax Policy in Developing Countries: Looking Backand Forward , volume 61 , p. 279 - 301 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,917
RANK
248,130
8 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Redistribution Via Taxation: The Limited Role of the Personal Income Tax in Developing Countries

By Eric M. Zolt and Richard M. Bird

Voice and Growth: Was Churchill Right?

Voice and Growth: Was Churchill Right?

By Peter H. Lindert

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies