Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forms of Measurement of the Income and the Consequences in the Calculation of the Roa

Brazilian Business Review, Vol. 3, No.1, pp. 73-85, January-June 2006

13 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2008

Dione Olesczuk Soutes

State University of Parana

Eliandro Schvirck

Universidade Tecnologica Federal do Parana

Date Written: april 25, 2006

Abstract

The objective of this study is to analyze which the consequences in the ROA (Return on Assets), when of the use of different forms of measurement of the income. The forms of measurement, approached in this work, are: the accounting operational income, comprehensive income and net income. The North American accounting standards (US GAAP) make possible the use of the two first forms while what and the Brazilian legislation (Lei 6.404/76) establishes the application of third. The work present the three forms of measurement of the income aiming at to answer which the consequences in the ROA for the use of different forms of measurement of income? The main similarities and differences between the three concepts inhabit in the following aspects: value of measurement of the costs and expenditures; consideration of extraordinary items as integrant of the result or of the Equity; the accounting treatment of deriving contributions of not controlling shareholders or of third with characteristics of capital reserve. The ROA is calculated from the income presented for the company, and then the form of used measurement will influence the analysis of this pointer.

Keywords: income measurement, return on investments, extraordinary items

Suggested Citation:

Soutes, Dione Olesczuk and Schvirck, Eliandro, Forms of Measurement of the Income and the Consequences in the Calculation of the Roa (april 25, 2006). Brazilian Business Review, Vol. 3, No.1, pp. 73-85, January-June 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1274057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Acsb -Accounting Standards Board , Canada
Background Information and Basis for Conclusions Posted: 2004-08-11
Duilio Bêrni , De Avila
Técnicas de pesquisa em economia. São Paulo: Saraiva Posted: 1992
Steven M Bragg
Return on Net Assets -RONA. Value Based Management.net. Available at <www.valuebasedmanagement.net/methods_rona
Antonio Coelho , Carlos
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,089
RANK
282,998
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies