Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Fair Value Measurement and Accounting Policy Choice in the United Kingdom and Australia

AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting

30 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2008 Last revised: 15 Mar 2012

David Cairns

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dianne Massoudi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ross Taplin

Murdoch University

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Date Written: February 6, 2009

Abstract

This study investigates the use of fair value measurement by 228 listed companies in the UK and Australia around the time of adoption of IFRS from 1 January 2005. We test whether within and between country comparability in policy choices (as measured by T indices) has changed in relation to (a) mandatory and (b) optional use of fair value measurement. Mandatory requirements related to financial instruments (IAS 39) and share-based payments (IFRS 2) have increased comparability. Increases in comparability for agricultural assets (IAS 41) were not significant. In relation to the optional use of fair value, comparability increased in relation to property (IAS 16) because some companies discontinued fair value measurement. Under IAS 39, the fair value option for other financial assets decreased comparability. Options to use fair value in other areas (financial liabilities, investment properties, intangible assets and plant and equipment) are not generally taken up, either for on-going measurement or on IFRS adoption (under the 'deemed cost' option). The results suggest a conservative approach and/or lack of incentives to use fair value measurement for most companies. Some banks and insurance companies are an exception for financial assets as are Australian property companies.

Keywords: Fair value measurement, accounting policy choice, within country comparability, between country comparability, T index

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Cairns, David and Massoudi, Dianne Renee and Taplin, Ross and Tarca, Ann, IFRS Fair Value Measurement and Accounting Policy Choice in the United Kingdom and Australia (February 6, 2009). AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1274024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1274024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D Aboody , M Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future company performance: evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , p. 149 - 78 Posted: 1999
Crossref
T Abrahams , B Sidhu
The role of R&D capitalization in firm valuation and performance measurement
Australian Journal of Management , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 183 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K Alfredson , P Pactor , . R Picker , T Wise , Wiley , S Archer , P Delvaille , S Mcleay
The measurement of harmonization and the comparability of financial statement items: Within-country and between-country effects
Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 98 , p. 67 - 80 Posted: 1995
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research, Special Issue , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Load more
17 Citations
Shirley Daniel , Boochun Jung , Hamid Pourjalali , Eric Wen
Firm Characteristics Influencing Responses Towards Adoption of the Fair Value Accounting Option: A Survey of Chief Financial Officers of U.S. Firms
34 Pages · Posted: 7 Apr 2010 · Last revised: 18 Nov 2010 · Downloads: 561
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ross H. Taplin
Statistical inference using the T index to quantify the level of comparability between accounts
Accounting and Business Research , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 75 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Christopher Hossfeld
Are IFRS Income Statements Comparable?
30 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2011 · Downloads: 382
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vicky Cole , Joël Branson , Diane Breesch
The Illusion of Comparable European IFRS Financial Statements - The View of Auditors, Analysts and Other Users
31 Pages · Posted: 11 Dec 2009 · Last revised: 15 Mar 2010 · Downloads: 544
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,479
RANK
8,445
17 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies