Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect on Financial Reporting Quality of an Exemption from the SEC Reporting Requirements for Foreign Private Issuers

International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2008 Last revised: 2 Jan 2011

Giorgio Gotti

University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP)

Stacy A. Mastrolia

Bucknell University - School of Management

Date Written: June 1, 2009

Abstract

We test for differences in financial reporting quality between companies that are required to file periodically with the SEC and those that are exempted from filing reports with the SEC under Rule 12g3-2(b). We examine three earnings quality measures: conservatism, abnormal accruals, and the predictability of earnings. Our results, for all three measures, show improved financial reporting quality for companies that file with the SEC than for those that are exempt from filing requirements; this difference in financial reporting quality can lead investors to question why the SEC allows the exemption (and is currently discussing expanding the exemption) when one of the primary goals of the SEC is the protection of US investors.

Suggested Citation:

Gotti, Giorgio and Mastrolia, Stacy A., The Effect on Financial Reporting Quality of an Exemption from the SEC Reporting Requirements for Foreign Private Issuers (June 1, 2009). International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
G Alexander , C Eun , S Janakiramanan
Asset pricing and Dual Listing on Foreign Capital Markets: A Note
Journal of Finance , volume 42 , p. 151 - 158 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Anonymous
Chairman Levitt attacks earnings management
The CPA Journal , volume 68 , issue 11 Posted: 1998
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
G C Biddle , S M Saudagaran
Foreign Stock Listings: Benefits, Costs, and the Accounting Policy Dilemma
Accounting Horizons , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 69 - 80 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
RANK
393,016
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies