Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Uniform and Universal Accounting and Currency System and its Influence on Corporate Value

42 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2008

Ludwig Franz Martin Reinhard

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 29, 2008

Abstract

This study analyzes the effects of the introduction of the Euro on the corporate market values of the Fortune Global 500 (FG500) companies over the period 1990 to 2007. Our results demonstrate a positive impact of the single Euro currency on the market values of the FG500 companies domiciled in that region. These valuation effects are realized through a number of channels, including the reduction of capital costs, increase in intra-European trade and real GDP growth. In the light of these advantages, we argue that both, a single global accounting standard a single global currency are necessary for welfare optimizing investment decisions and conclude that the introduction of a single global currency is not a question of 'whether' but 'when'.

Keywords: Single global currency, corporate value, exchange rate, transmission channel

JEL Classification: E42, E50, M40

Suggested Citation:

Reinhard, Ludwig Franz Martin, A Uniform and Universal Accounting and Currency System and its Influence on Corporate Value (September 29, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275182 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1275182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Maastricht treaty: A special protocol of this treaty allows the UK and Denmark not to participate in the final stage of EMU Posted: 1993-11
European Monetary Institute (EMI), the forerunner of the European Central Bank
Stability and growth pact comes into effect Posted: 1997-07
Crossref
Portugal and Finland) and form the first group of countries that adopt the Euro as their single currency. Denmark and the United Kingdom opt out from participating in the third stage of EMU
11 member states meet the convergence criteria Posted: 1998-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,990
RANK
383,022
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies