Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting for Goodwill Under IFRS: An Exploratory Study of the Comparability in France, Germany, and the United Kingdom

37 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2008

Mari Paananen

University of Hertfordshire

Date Written: September 30, 2008

Abstract

Using a random sample of companies from France, Germany, and the UK (100 from each country) I examine the comparability/diversity of fair value accounting of goodwill under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). I predict and find that large companies operating in an environment with a high level of investor protection are more likely to provide more disclosure on how the conduct the fair value estimation of acquired goodwill. I also predict find that investors find the accounting information from companies with high levels of disclosure more informative. In addition, I also find that companies in the financial sector are providing significantly less disclosure compared to other companies.

Keywords: Fair value, Goodwill, IFRS, France, Germany, United Kingdom

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M45, M47, K22

Suggested Citation:

Paananen, Mari, Fair Value Accounting for Goodwill Under IFRS: An Exploratory Study of the Comparability in France, Germany, and the United Kingdom (September 30, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1275803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 5 - 15 Posted: 1986
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , J R M Hand , W R Landsman
Accruals, AccountingBased Valuation Models, and the Prediction of Equity Values
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 20 , p. 311 - 345 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A J Beatty , Weber
Accounting Discretion in Fair Value Estimates: An Examination of SFAS 142 Goodwill Impairments
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , p. 257 - 288 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S F Cahan , G Liu , J Sun
Investor Protection, Income Smoothing, and Earnings Informativeness
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 7 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,947
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,630
RANK
19,431
14 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies