Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Quality and the Law

35 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2008

Frederick W. Lindahl

George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Hannu J. Schadewitz

Turku School of Economics at the University of Turku - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: September 30, 2008

Abstract

Financial transparency is a critical factor in global financial markets. Recently, international studies of accounting quality have flourished. Guided by the conclusion in La Porta et al. (1998) that there is a fundamental difference in investor protections that that are afforded by civil vs. common law systems, accounting researchers always include the country's legal system as an explanatory variable. Usually they conclude that legal systems matter for the quality of financial disclosure.

Because this research is new and institutional details of legal systems' effect on accounting have not been studied, we evaluate the conclusion that legal family is an important determinant of quality. We review the legal scholarship about the two families, the work on the reliability of the pivotal analysis of La Porta et al. (1998), and finally the accounting research studies themselves.

We conclude that the importance of legal family on accounting quality is very weakly supported.

Keywords: Common law, civil law, international accounting, accounting quality

JEL Classification: K33, M41, M43, M47

Suggested Citation:

Lindahl, Frederick W. and Schadewitz, Hannu J., Accounting Quality and the Law (September 30, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1275971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Christopher S Armstrong , Mary E Barth , Alan D Jagolinzer , Edward J Reidl
Market Reactions to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe Posted: 2008
Crossref
Association française de la gestion financière Posted: 2007-12
Warren Bailey , G , Andrew Karolyi , Carolina Salva
The Economic Consequences of Increased Disclosure: Evidence from International Cross-listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Ray Ball , S P Kothari , Ashok Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
504
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,536
RANK
128,474
5 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Economic Consequences of Legal Origins

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

The Economic Consequences of Legal Origins

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Origins and Modern Stock Markets

By Mark J. Roe

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies