Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of IFRS in the UK

AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting

21 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2008

Mari Paananen

University of Hertfordshire

Nimita Parmar

University of Hertfordshire - Business School

Date Written: June 27, 2008

Abstract

There are two approaches which investors can exercise when using accounting information, either to use financial reporting to value or to assess the management's stewardship of the company. Despite the fact that US GAAP, IFRS, and UK GAAP are all market oriented sets of accounting standards, both FASB and IASB are more inclined to require fair value accounting with regards to assets and liabilities compared to UK GAAP, which tend to encourage a stewardship approach. We examine whether investors' shift their focus from earnings to book value of shareholders' equity after the adoption of IFRS in the United Kingdom. As predicted we find that indeed investors seem to rely more on the book value of shareholders' equity and less on earnings information after the adoption of IFRS. We predicted and found no change in the overall increase accounting information's ability to predict future equity values.

Keywords: IFRS, stewardship, valuation, United Kingdom

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G12

Suggested Citation:

Paananen, Mari and Parmar, Nimita, The Adoption of IFRS in the UK (June 27, 2008). AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1275805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
S Aisbitt
Harmonisation of financial reporting before the European Company Law Directives: the case of the Nordic Companies Act. Accounting and Business Research , volume 32 , p. 105 - 117 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Alexander , A Britton
Financial Reporting 7 th Edition Posted: 2004
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , Z Mark
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries'
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 229 Posted: 1993
Crossref
D Ardern , M Aiken
An Accounting History of Capital Maintenance: Legal Precedents for Managerial Autonomy in the United Kingdom
Accounting Historians Journal , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 60 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Leif Atle Beisland , Kjell Henry Knivsflå
Have IFRS Changed How Stock Prices Associate with Earnings and Book Values? Evidence from Norway
36 Pages · Posted: 29 Jan 2009 · Last revised: 11 Jun 2013 · Downloads: 1,134
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tim-Frederik Oehr , Jochen Zimmermann
Accounting and the Welfare-State: The Missing Link
30 Pages · Posted: 4 Dec 2009 · Downloads: 161
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Victoria Krivogorsky , Jui-Chin Chang , Ervin L. Black
Analysis of Characteristics Motivating Firms’ IFRS Adoption: Evidence from the European Union
58 Pages · Posted: 14 Oct 2009 · Last revised: 7 Mar 2011 · Downloads: 507
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Daniel Zeghal , Sonda M. Chtourou , Yosra M. Fourati
The Effect of Mandatory Adoption of IFRS on Earnings Quality: Evidence from the European Union
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 1 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,525
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,563
RANK
12,782
6 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies