Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discretionary Capitalization of R&D - The Trade-Off Between Earnings Management and Signaling

AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting Paper

50 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2008 Last revised: 5 Apr 2009

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Helen Kang

UNSW Sydney

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 30, 2009

Abstract

We analyze the trade-off between the benefits of signaling and the distortions from opportunistic earnings management resulting from the discretionary capitalization of Research & Development (R&D) expenditures. The latter can be used by managers to signal private information to the market. It can however also be used for opportunistic earnings management. Based on signaling theory, we argue that the market may use an overall assessment of earnings management to identify R&D capitalizations which are credible signals of future economic benefits. Based on Subramanyam 1996 who analyzes the pricing of discretionary accruals in general, we provide evidence that the pricing of the R&D accrual in particular is conditional on the company's degree of earnings management. Using German data for 2001-2006 we find that the market prices the R&D accrual only when the level of earnings management the firm is engaged in is low. In the spirit of Oswald (2008) we detect determinants of R&D capitalization and additionally distinguish between fundamental factors (firm size) and opportunistic determinants (profitability, leverage, accounting uniformity, and total R&D) that are indicative for managers' opportunistic behavior.

Keywords: Accruals, Cluster Analysis, Earnings Management, Research & Development, Value Relevance

JEL Classification: C29, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dinh, Tami and Kang, Helen Hyon Ju and Schultze, Wolfgang, Discretionary Capitalization of R&D - The Trade-Off Between Earnings Management and Signaling (January 30, 2009). AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275785 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1275785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
L Aboody , B Lev
The Value Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D Aboody , B Lev
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
T Abrahams , B K Sidhu
The Role of R&D Capitalisations in Firm Valuation and Performance Measurement
Australian Journal of Management , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 183 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K Ahmed , H Falk
The Value Relevance of Management's Research and Development Reporting Choice: Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 264 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
988
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,089
RANK
28,449
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Longitudinal Earnings Value Relevance and Intangible Assets: Evidence from Australian Firms, 1975-99

By John Goodwin

Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Impact on the Value Relevance of Intangible Assets

By Keryn Chalmers, Greg Clinch, ...

Accounting and Valuation: How Helpful are Recent Accounting Rule Changes?

By Bradford Cornell and Wayne R. Landsman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies