Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact and Importance of Mandatory Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in Europe

39 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2008

Gary Grudnitski

San Diego State University

François Aubert

University of Auvergne Clermont 1

Date Written: September 2008

Abstract

In this paper we report the results of conducting a two-stage analysis on the impact and importance of mandatory adoption of International Accounting Reporting Standards (IFRS) on European Union (EU) firms. In the first stage we determined the impact of mandatory adoption of IFRS across fifteen countries and twenty industries in the EU. This was accomplished by identifying significant differences in return on assets (ROA) for firms computed under IFRS and local, generally accepted accounting principles (LG). Significant positive differences were detected for firms in Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK: only Belgium firms exhibited a negative average significant difference between ROA calculated using IFRS and LG. Repeating the analysis of differences in ROA on an industry-by-industry basis yielded additional German, Portuguese and Spanish firms for the second stage of the analysis in which the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption was assessed. Defining impact in terms of market and financial reporting quality, we found a statistically significant relationship between IFRS accounting information and market returns for firms in the all-countries combined sample, and in the countries of Belgium, Finland, Germany, Norway and the United Kingdom. Support for the timeliness of IFRS accounting information was uncovered for firms in Belgium, Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland. Finally, evidence to support the proposition that an IFRS regime produces quality discretionary accruals was found for firms from the all-countries-combined sample and from Belgium, Finland, Germany, Norway, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom. Results of comparing differential accounting information constructed under IFRS and LG, however, were less profound and consistent. Specifically, we identified firms in the all-countries-combined sample and the countries of Portugal and Spain as having more value relevant earnings per share based on IFRS than those derived using LG. When our examination focused on the timeliness of earnings, a positive differential impact between earnings constructed on the basis of IFRS and local accounting standards was detected for Belgian firms only. Finally, the quality of discretionary accruals was shown to be significantly higher under IFRS than LG for firms in Portugal and Spain.

Keywords: international financial reporting standards (IFRS), local accounting regimes

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44, M47, G12

Suggested Citation:

Grudnitski, Gary and Aubert, François, The Impact and Importance of Mandatory Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in Europe (September 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1276338 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1276338
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Ifrs &gt; R 2 Lg
A single asterisk (*), a double asterisk (**), and a triple asterisk indicate F-statistics significant at the ρ ≤ 0.10, ρ ≤ 0.05 and ρ ≤ 0.01 level
References
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Application of International Accounting Standards
Official Journal of the European Communities , volume 243 , p. 1 - 4 Posted: 2002
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Examination of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M Barth , G Clinch , T Shapiro
International Accounting Harmonization and Global Equity Markets
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 201 - 235 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,036
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,532
RANK
49,868
2 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies