Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Business Combinations - The Consequences of IFRS Adoption for UK Listed Companies

32 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2008

Renata Isabel Stenka

Keele University - Keele Management School

Phil Ormrod

University of Liverpool

Ann Chan

University of Liverpool - Management School (ULMS)

Date Written: October 1, 2008

Abstract

The study reports some evidence on the group accounting consequences of the implementation of IFRS in the UK. It examines how the adoption of IFRS has affected reported net profit and equity of UK listed companies. The contribution of the paper lays in reporting the evidence of the empirical consequences of the adoption of IFRS by identifying the underlying causes of these differences. These causes are not just identified at the level of individual standards but individual accounting procedures what allows for more thorough analysis.

The data is derived from the IFRS 1 reconciliation requirement which provides the unique opportunity to compare the evidence of two different measurement bases for the same set of underlying economic events. The results show that goodwill treatment had the largest effect on reported profit resulting in the largest difference between IFRS and UK GAAP. There are however a variety of other group accounting effects.

Keywords: international financial reporting, group accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Stenka, Renata Isabel and Ormrod, Phil and Chan, Ann, Accounting for Business Combinations - The Consequences of IFRS Adoption for UK Listed Companies (October 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1276826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1276826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
128 References
O Abd-Elsalam , P Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to an Emerging Capital Market: Relative Familiarity and Language Effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 12 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Accounting Standard , Board
Financial Reporting Standard 2 Accounting for Subsidiary Undertakings Posted: 1992
Accounting Standard , Board
Financial Reporting Standard 9 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Accounting Standard , Board
Financial Reporting Standard 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets Posted: 1997
Load more
4 Citations
Matthias Nnadi , Sailesh Tanna
Economics and Political Implications of International Financial Reporting Standards
, p. 134 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Arshad Ali , Saeed Akbar , Phillip Ormrod , Syed Zulfiqar Ali Shah
The Impact and Implications of International Financial Reporting Standards in the United Kingdom: Evidence from the Alternative Investment Market
Australian Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 360 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Jose Manuel Pereira , Amelia Ferreira da Silva , Maria Jose Dos-Santos
The Impact of Accounting for Government Grants on Equity Capital
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 23 , p. 1401 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Arshad Ali , Saeed Akbar , Phillip Ormrod
Impact of international financial reporting standards on the profit and equity of AIM listed companies in the UK
Accounting Forum , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 45 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,435
RANK
15,286
4 Citations
128 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies