Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incorporating Intangible Aspects in Performance Evaluation of Indian Banks

19 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2008

Sagar R. Dave

J. G. College of Commerce

Rajesh Bhatt

Bhavnagar University

Date Written: September 30, 2008

Abstract

This paper evaluates the significance of intangible aspects as a tool for performance measurement in the Indian banking sector. Panel data spread over ten years from 1997 to 2006 and 19 indicators of a representative Indian bank, namely, Bank of Baroda, are used for the purpose. The importance of measurement of intangible assets and integration of contingencies in performance evaluation is discussed initially. Being a part of the service sector, long-term strategic planning in a bank needs to concentrate on these. However, implementation of this technique is difficult due to the problems in measurement of the attributes associated with the intangible assets, complexity of the interrelations among these indicators, differences in the significance assigned to various indicators within the organization and difficulty in linking the reward mechanism to performance.

Suggested Citation:

Dave, Sagar R. and Bhatt, Rajesh, Incorporating Intangible Aspects in Performance Evaluation of Indian Banks (September 30, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1276097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1276097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,706
RANK
162,563
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies