Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Level of Shareholder Protection and the Value Relevance of Accounting Numbers: Evidence from the European Union Before and After IFRS

AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting

18 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2008 Last revised: 30 Nov 2009

Isabel Lourenço

Lisbon University Institute (ISCTE-IUL); University of São Paulo (USP)

José Dias Curto

ISCTE - IUL Business School

Date Written: September 30, 2008

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of the adoption of IFRS on the relative position of six European countries concerning the value relevance of accounting numbers and whether the level of shareholders protection is likely to influence this impact. This research provides evidence on the change from a context where accounting numbers are significantly more value relevant in the Anglo-Saxon countries than in Continental countries (pre-IFRS period) to a context where the value relevance of accounting numbers differs significantly between countries with different levels of shareholder protection (post-IFRS period). This finding suggests the importance of considering shareholder protection when promoting the adoption of IFRS around the world.

Keywords: IFRS, value relevance, shareholder protection

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M44, M47, G38, J41

Suggested Citation:

Lourenço, Isabel and Dias Curto, José, The Level of Shareholder Protection and the Value Relevance of Accounting Numbers: Evidence from the European Union Before and After IFRS (September 30, 2008). AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1276024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1276024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Arce , A Mora
Empirical evidence of the effect of European accounting differences on the stock market valuation of earnings and book value
European Accounting Review , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 573 - 599 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Brown , K Lo , T Lys
Use of R2 in accounting research: measuring changes in the value relevance over the last four decades
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 83 - 115 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
797
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,227
RANK
71,515
5 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies