Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Financial Statement Issues Reported as Discussed and Negotiated by Key Preparer-Side Groups in UK Listed Companies in the First and Second Years of IFRS Implementation

AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting

46 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2008

Vivien A. Beattie

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Stella Fearnley

Portsmouth Business School

Tony Hines

University of Portsmouth

Date Written: October 1, 2008

Abstract

UK listed company Chief Financial Officers (CFOs), audit committee chairs (ACCs) and audit partners (APs) are surveyed post-IFRS implementation to elicit details of the issues that are discussed, negotiated and which result in changes being made to the financial statements. 498 usable responses were received of which 82% relate to Year 2 of financial statements produced under IFRS and 18% relate to Year 1, facilitating a comparison between the two groups. Results indicate that ACCs report similar levels of interaction and change as CFOs. Overall reported levels of interaction are higher for respondents in their first year of IFRS. In both years the same set of specific issues tended to dominate discussions, negotiations and cause changes to financial statements. Few significant differences between year 1 and year 2 IFRS were noted. It is shown that the changed regulatory environment has caused many new issues to emerge.

Keywords: discussion, IFRS, financial statements, negotiation

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Beattie, Vivien and Fearnley, Stella and Hines, Tony, An Analysis of Financial Statement Issues Reported as Discussed and Negotiated by Key Preparer-Side Groups in UK Listed Companies in the First and Second Years of IFRS Implementation (October 1, 2008). AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1276322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1276322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
S Aisbitt
Assessing the effect of the transition to IFRS on equity: The Case of the FTSE 100
Europe , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 117 - 133 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors, Accounting and Business Research -International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
V A Beattie , S Fearnley , R Brandt
Behind the Audit Report: A Descriptive Study of Discussion and Negotiation Between Auditors and Directors
International Journal of Auditing , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 202 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley , R Brandt
Behind Closed Doors: What Company Audit is Really About Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
580
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,337
RANK
107,809
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Evidence About Auditor-Client Management Negotiation Concerning Client's Financial Reporting

By Michael Gibbins, Alan Webb, ...

Auditor Negotiations: An Examination of the Efficacy of Intervention Methods

By Ken Trotman, Arnold Wright, ...

A Review and Integration of Empirical Research on Materiality: Two Decades Later

By William F. Messier, Jr., Nonna Martinov-bennie, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies