Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Accounting: Consider a Different Model for Accounting for Treasury Stock

16 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2008 Last revised: 12 Oct 2008

Peg (Margaret) Horan

Wagner College

Date Written: October 1, 2008

Abstract

The U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) will no longer be the preferred or the permitted accounting standard as the SEC has announced in December 2007 plans to make transition from GAAP to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Thus, a new and fresh perspective of accounting should be considered at this juncture to create an international accounting method which will serve the purpose of reporting transactions in a transparent manner. One such area which is deserving of a new reflection is treasury stock which is being bought back by corporations at historically all time highs over the past several years. Presented here for consideration is a new line of earnings per share calculation for the income statement when the buybacks materially differ from the basic EPS calculation.

Keywords: Buybacks, Treasury Stock, International Convergence Issues, Earnings Per Share reflecting buybacks

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M47

Suggested Citation:

Horan, Margaret, International Accounting: Consider a Different Model for Accounting for Treasury Stock (October 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1276674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1276674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
F A S Board
Facts about FASB Posted: 2007-03-25
B Burr
Search of a Buyback Model. Pensions and Investments Posted: 2006
Michael A. Gumport
Accounting for Equity Transactions - Marking Equity to Market: 400 Years Overdue? Or, GAAP's Gap: Pacioli After the Dutch East India Company
Pages: 29 Posted: 9 Dec 2007 Last revised: 23 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael A. Gumport
Accounting for the Buyback Boom - The Next Step for Options and Equity Expensing
Pages: 32 Posted: 16 Mar 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,075
RANK
167,682
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

Dividends, Share Repurchases, and the Substitution Hypothesis

By Gustavo Grullon and Roni Michaely

Payout Policy in the 21st Century

By Alon Brav, John R. Graham, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies