Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Lease Capitalization on Financial Ratios of Listed German Companies

Schmalenbach Business Review, Vol. 60, April 2008

24 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2008 Last revised: 12 Oct 2008

Rolf Uwe Fülbier

University of Bayreuth

Jorge Lirio Silva

University of Southampton - School of Social Sciences

Marc Henrik Pferdehirt

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 1, 2008

Abstract

The separation of leases into operating and finance leases for accounting purposes can result in incentives to favor operating lease contracts, since they avoid on-balance-sheet debt. The IASB and FASB are conducting a long-term joint project on leasing, following the G4 1 group's research on possible improvements to lease accounting. One alternative is to treat all leases in a manner similar to today's finance leasing. Our simulation results for Germany show notable changes in a variety of financial ratios, especially for assets and liability relations, which may trigger management with incentives to dampen these effects. Of note for standard setters, the effects of operating lease capitalization should not be overstated. Only minor effects can be observed for profitability ratios and market multiples often used for valuation purposes. Moreover, most industries remain almost unaffected and the relative ratio-based ranking of all sample companies does not change much. Additionally, we observe that the common Creditstats model yields somewhat comparable results.

Keywords: Constructive Capitalization, Creditstats, Leases, Off-balance-sheet Debt, Operating Leases, Tweedie Approach

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Fülbier, Rolf Uwe and Lirio Silva, Jorge and Pferdehirt, Marc Henrik, Impact of Lease Capitalization on Financial Ratios of Listed German Companies (April 1, 2008). Schmalenbach Business Review, Vol. 60, April 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A Abdel-Khalik , Rashad
The economic effects on lessees of FASB Statement No. 13 Accounting for Leases Posted: 1981
Edward I Altman , G Robert , Paul Haldeman , Narayanan
Zeta TM analysis , volume 1 , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Richard G Barker
The role of dividends in valuation models used by analysts and fund managers
European Accounting Review , volume 8 , p. 195 - 218 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Paul Barnes
The analysis and use of financial ratios: A review article
Finance and Accounting , volume 14 , p. 449 - 461 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Yuri Biondi , Robert J. Bloomfield , Jonathan C. Glover , Karim Jamal , James A. Ohlson , Stephen H. Penman , Eiko Tsujiyama , Thomas Jeffrey Wilks
A Perspective on the Joint IASB/FASB Exposure Draft on Accounting for Leases
Accounting Horizons, Vol. 25, No. 4, 2011, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-681, Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 16-2011 · 16 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2011 · Last revised: 11 Jun 2013 · Downloads: 1,593
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yun Xu , Jahidur Md Rahman
Effects of Applying the New ASBE 21 Leases on the Financial Statements: Evidence from China
Journal of Governance and Regulation 2021 · 10 Pages · Posted: 19 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 81
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ana Isabel Lopes , daniela penela
From Leases to Ratios: The Impact of IFRS 16 on Financial Statements
ADIAC-D-23-00086 · 33 Pages · Posted: 10 Aug 2023 · Downloads: 422
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,163
RANK
6,443
3 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Lease Accounting Reform and Economic Consequences: The Views of Preparers and Users

By Alan Goodacre, Vivien A. Beattie, ...

The Potential Impact of Enforced Lease Capitalisation in the UK Retail Sector

By Alan Goodacre

A Perspective on the Joint IASB/FASB Exposure Draft on Accounting for Leases

By Yuri Biondi, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies