Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Value Relevance Among German, U.S. And International Accounting Standards: A German Stock Market Perspective

Journal of Accounting Auditing and Finance, Vol. 20, No. 2, pp. 95-119, Spring

31 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2008 Last revised: 28 Dec 2010

Eli Bartov

NYU Stern School of Business

Stephen R. Goldberg

Grand Valley State University

Myungsun Kim

SUNY at Buffalo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2002

Abstract

n recent years, German companies report consolidated financial statements under German GAAP, U.S. GAAP, or International Accounting Standards (IAS). Market observers, researchers, and regulators have argued that financial statements prepared under the shareholder (or investor) model, such as U.S. GAAP or IAS, provide better information than financial statements prepared under the stakeholder model (German GAAP). They further have argued that U.S. GAAP is more rigorously defined and, therefore, provides superior information to IAS. We investigate comparative value relevance, measured as the slope coefficient of the returns/earnings regression. Our results are consistent with expectations. Within our sample of German companies traded on German stock exchanges, value relevance of U.S. GAAP based earnings is higher than that of IAS based earnings, which in turn is more value relevant than earnings produced under German GAAP. A major contribution of this research is that, unlike prior research, we measure stock returns for all sample firms in the German stock market only, and therefore are not reliant on the perhaps strong assumption underlying prior studies of similarity of pricing across markets domiciled in different countries.

Keywords: value relevance, international accounting standards, German accounting standards, U.S. GAAP, accounting earnings

Suggested Citation:

Bartov, Eli and Goldberg, Stephen R. and Kim, Myungsun, Comparative Value Relevance Among German, U.S. And International Accounting Standards: A German Stock Market Perspective (June 1, 2002). Journal of Accounting Auditing and Finance, Vol. 20, No. 2, pp. 95-119, Spring, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1280727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
74 Citations
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Mark H. Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976 · 55 Pages · Posted: 11 Apr 2005 · Downloads: 13,117
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stuart McLeay
Discussion of the Effect of Earnings Management on the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 32, pp. 727-736, April 2005 · 45 Pages · Posted: 28 Apr 2005 · Downloads: 19
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Holger Daske
Economic Benefits of Adopting IFRS or Usgaap - Has the Expected Cost of Equity Capital Really Decreased?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 33, No. 3-4, pp. 329-373, April 2006 · 45 Pages · Posted: 25 May 2006 · Downloads: 39
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alexander Schiebel
Value Relevance of German Gaap and IFRS Consolidated Financial Reporting: An Empirical Analysis on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange
26 Pages · Posted: 17 Jul 2006 · Last revised: 1 Nov 2007 · Downloads: 2,064
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
626
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,252
RANK
9,078
74 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies