Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capitalization of R&D and the Informativeness of Stock Prices

NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27597

39 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2008

Dennis R. Oswald

University of Michigan - Ross School of Business

Paul Zarowin

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2007

Abstract

This paper presents both a new approach to studying the consequences of accounting choice and a unique sample to examine the effects of accounting choice in the R&D context. We investigate the effect of firms decision to capitalize R&D expenditures on the amount of information about future earnings reflected in current stock returns, as captured by the association between current-year returns and future earnings (FERC). We use a sample of U.K. firms, which includes both R&D capitalizers and expensers. An important feature of our tests is our use of a two equation system to control for the endogeneity of the accounting choice (i.e., self selection). Proponents of capitalization claim that it enables management to better communicate information about the success of projects and their probable future benefits. Consistent with this, we find that capitalization is associated with higher FERC than expensing.

Keywords: Research & Development, Informativeness, Capitalization

Suggested Citation:

Oswald, Dennis R. and Zarowin, Paul, Capitalization of R&D and the Informativeness of Stock Prices (August 2007). NYU Working Paper No. 2451/27597, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1281361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
David Aboody , Baruch Lev
The Value-Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Financial Reporting Standard No. 3 -Reporting Financial Performance
Accounting Standards Board Posted: 1992
Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No. 13 -Accounting for Research and Development Expenditures
Accounting Standards Committee Posted: 1989
Letter to the International Accounting Standards Committee Re: Draft Statement of Principles, Intangible Assets Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,980
RANK
40,170
21 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Risk and Return from Factors

By Louis K.c. Chan, J. Karaceski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies