Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Voluntary Accounting Ratios by Malaysian Listed Companies

Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2008

27 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2008 Last revised: 14 Sep 2015

Azrul Abdullah

Universiti Teknologi MARA; Fakultas Vokasi

Ku Nor Izah Ku Ismail

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 8, 2008

Abstract

Accounting ratios are believed to be of fundamental importance in financial analysis, and therefore are useful addition to financial reports. This paper examines the reporting of voluntary accounting ratio by Malaysian companies in corporate annual reports. Drawing on agency and signaling theories, this paper explores whether associations exist between company performance and voluntary disclosure of accounting ratios. In particular, associations are tested between the extent of ratio disclosure and company performance (namely profitability, liquidity, leverage, and company efficiency), size and industry. Six hypotheses are tested using data collected from 2003 annual reports of 100 Malaysian listed companies. This paper provides evidence that the extent of voluntary ratio disclosure is low; and size, industry as well as liquidity significantly influence the reporting of ratios in corporate annual reports. The implications of these findings are discussed.

Keywords: Accounting ratios, disclosure, financial report, Malaysia

JEL Classification: G29, M41, M45, M47

Suggested Citation:

Abdullah, Azrul and Ku Ismail, Ku Nor Izah, Disclosure of Voluntary Accounting Ratios by Malaysian Listed Companies (October 8, 2008). Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1281206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Agca , S Onder
Voluntary Disclosure in Turkey: A study on firms listed in Istanbul Stock Exchange (ISE), Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 5 , p. 241 - 251 Posted: 2007
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure level in annual reports: a meta-analysis
British Accounting Review , volume 31 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
K Ahmed , D Nicholls
The impact of non-financial company characteristics on mandatory disclosure compliance in developing countries: the case of Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 62 - 77 Posted: 1994
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,397
RANK
441,817
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies