Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Timely is Financial Reporting in China? An Empirical Study

13 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2008

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Xiaoli Yuan

Elizabeth City State University

Date Written: October 13, 2008

Abstract

Timeliness of financial reporting is one of the attributes of good corporate governance identified by the OECD and World Bank. Shareholders and other stakeholders need information while it is still fresh and the more time that passes between year-end and disclosure, the more stale the information becomes and the less value it has.

This paper examines the timeliness of financial reporting in the People's Republic of China. The timeliness of financial reporting was measured by counting the number of days that elapsed between year-end and the date of the independent auditor's report for a number of Chinese companies. Those results were then compared to data of non-Chinese companies in developed market economies to determine whether there was a significant difference. This study also examines which independent audit firms issued the audit opinion to determine which audit firms dominate.

Keywords: timeliness, financial reporting, corporate governance, China, GAAP, accounting, transition economy

JEL Classification: D80, G34, K22, M4, O53

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Yuan, Xiaoli, How Timely is Financial Reporting in China? An Empirical Study (October 13, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1283343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1283343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
J Annaert , J K Marc , R Deceuster , R Polfliet , G Van Campenhout
To Be or Not Be … 'Too Late': The Case of the Belgian Semi-annual Earnings Announcements
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 29 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 477 - 495 Posted: 2002
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , K M Johnstone , T D Warfield
Corporate Reporting on the Internet. Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 241 - 257 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R K Atiase , L S Bamber , S Tse
Timeliness of Financial Reporting, the Firm Size Effect, and Stock Price Reactions to Annual Earnings Announcements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 526 - 552 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,457
RANK
179,717
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies