Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of an Enforceable Standard in Malaysia: Assessing the Compliance of Disclosures for Large First-Time Adopters Under FRS 136

MGSM Working Paper No. 2008-12

24 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2008

Tyrone M. Carlin

Southern Cross University

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Nur Hidayah Laili

Macquarie Graduate School of Management

Date Written: October 13, 2008

Abstract

After many years of debating the appropriate treatment for goodwill, Malaysia finally has an enforceable accounting standard on this topic. Applicable for business combinations with reporting dates commencing on or after 1 January 2006, FRS 136 - Impairment of Assets requires that goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units and tested for impairment at least annually.

This new requirements is a radical departure to the existing practice of goodwill reporting in Malaysia, with financial statement prepares now having to deal with complex and rigorous techniques for assessing impairment, and the added disclosure requirements in relation to goodwill allocation and the estimate of recoverable amounts. Given the change in the reporting requirements, there exists the possibility of inconsistent compliance and varying levels of disclosure quality by companies as they transition into the new reporting regime.

Thus, the purpose of this paper is to examine the level of compliance with the provisions of FRS 136 - Impairment of Assets and assess the quality of disclosures made in accordance with this new standard. Using a sample of 36 of the largest Malaysian listed corporations as at 2006, we find significant levels of non-compliance and substantial variation in the quality of note-form disclosures pertaining to impairment testing.

Keywords: Goodwill Accounting, Financial Reporting Standard, FRS 136, Impairment, Malaysia

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M45, M47, G24, G38

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Tyrone M. and Finch, Nigel and Laili, Nur Hidayah, The Impact of an Enforceable Standard in Malaysia: Assessing the Compliance of Disclosures for Large First-Time Adopters Under FRS 136 (October 13, 2008). MGSM Working Paper No. 2008-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1283648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1283648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Tyrone M. Carlin , Nigel Finch
Early Impressions of Australia's Brave New World of Goodwill Impairment
MGSM Working Paper No. 2007-1 Pages: 26 Posted: 3 Jan 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
F Y Fah
Understanding Fair Value Accounting
New Straits Times Posted: 2006
W Lonergan
A-IFRS, A Practitioner"s View
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting & Finance , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 19 Posted: 2007
Karthik Ramanna , Ross L. Watts
Evidence on the Effects of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting
Harvard Business School Working Paper No. 08-014 Pages: 60 Posted: 8 Sep 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
380
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,632
RANK
178,711
7 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies