Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of the Adoption of Sustainability Assurance Statements: An International Investigation

Business Strategy and the Environment, Vol. 19, No. 3, 2010, pp. 182-198

24 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2008 Last revised: 4 Mar 2010

Ans Kolk

University of Amsterdam Business School

Paolo Perego

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano

Date Written: October 14, 2008

Abstract

This paper explores the factors associated with the voluntary decisions to assure social, environmental and sustainability reports. Since the market for assurance services in this area is in its formative stages, there is a limited understanding of the demand for this emergent non-financial auditing practice, which is evolving rapidly across different countries. Drawing from extant literature in international auditing and environmental accounting, we focus on a set of country-level institutional factors to explain the adoption of sustainability assurances statements among an international panel of 212 Fortune Global 250 companies for the years 1999, 2002 and 2005. Consistently with our expectations, our results provide evidence that companies operating in countries that are more stakeholder-oriented and have a weaker governance enforcement regime are more likely to adopt a sustainability assurance statement. Further, the demand for assurance is higher in countries where sustainable corporate practices are better enabled by market and institutional mechanisms. Our exploratory findings also indicate that the likelihood to choose a large accounting firm as assurance provider increases for companies domiciled in countries that are shareholder-oriented and have a lower level of litigation. We conclude the paper suggesting three directions of research in the area of sustainability assurance that have relevant academic and practical implications.

Keywords: reporting, assurance, auditing, sustainability, multinationals, stakeholders

JEL Classification: D21, F23, G38, M14, M41, M47, M49, Q20

Suggested Citation:

Kolk, Ans and Perego, Paolo, Determinants of the Adoption of Sustainability Assurance Statements: An International Investigation (October 14, 2008). Business Strategy and the Environment, Vol. 19, No. 3, 2010, pp. 182-198, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1284589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Accountability
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
AA1000 Assurance Standard. AccountAbility: London AccountAbility. 2003b. AA 1000 Assurance Standard Practitioners Note. AccountAbility: London AccountAbility. 2005. National Corporate Responsibility Index. AccountAbility: London Adams CA , volume 17 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2003
C A Adams , R Evans
Accountability, completeness, credibility and the audit expectations gap
Journal of Corporate Citizenship , p. 97 - 115 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C A Adams , Hill , Wy , C B Roberts
Corporate social reporting practices in Western Europe: Legitimating corporate behaviour?
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M L Alciatore , C C Dee , M Freedman , B Jaggi
External transparency or internal capture ? The role of third-party statements in adding value to corporate environmental reports
Advances in Environmental Accounting and Management , volume 3 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,242
RANK
44,149
11 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Cares About Auditor Reputation?

By Jan Barton

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies