Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Transition to IFRS and the Value Relevance of Financial Statements in Greece

British Accounting Review, Vol. 44, Issue 4, 2012

Posted: 20 Oct 2008 Last revised: 7 Apr 2014

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Lisa Evans

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: May 2, 2012

Abstract

We examine the combined value relevance of book value of equity and net income before and after the mandatory transition to IFRS in Greece. Contrary to our expectations, we find no significant change in the explanatory power of value relevance regressions between the two periods. The coefficients on book value of equity and net income are positive and significant in both the pre-IFRS and post-IFRS periods. However, the coefficient on book value of equity is significantly greater under IFRS, whereas we find some evidence of a decrease in the coefficient on net income. Finally, we find that market participants viewed the extra information provided by reconciliations between Greek GAAP and IFRS for 2004 figures as incrementally value relevant.

Keywords: Creative accounting, Greece, IFRS implementation, Value relevance

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M44, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Andre, Paul and Evans, Lisa, The Transition to IFRS and the Value Relevance of Financial Statements in Greece (May 2, 2012). British Accounting Review, Vol. 44, Issue 4, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1286474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1286474
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies