Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why did ABC Fail at the Bank of China?

Management Accounting Quarterly, Spring 2008

8 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2008 Last revised: 10 Feb 2020

Abed Al-Nasser Abdallah

American University of Sharjah

Wei Li

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 17, 2008

Abstract

Few authors have explored the implementation of Activity-Based Costing (ABC) in East-Asian companies. This study investigates factors that led to the failure of an ABC implementation at a major Chinese financial institution - Bank of China. By interviewing 18 employees at one branch, our study reveals six factors that blocked the implementation. These are the lack of clear business purpose, a lack of education about ABC, poor model design, a lack of participants, individual and organizational resistance to change and the fact that few outsourcers were available. The study represents a real example of why ABC implementation might fail in an organization.

Keywords: Activity-Based Costing

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M47, G21

Suggested Citation:

Abdallah, Abed Al-Nasser and Li, Wei, Why did ABC Fail at the Bank of China? (October 17, 2008). Management Accounting Quarterly, Spring 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1286190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Ronald W Hilton
Managerial Accounting: Creating Value in a Dynamic Business Environment
Sixth International Edition Posted: 2005
Gary Cokins
Activity-Based Cost Management: An Executive's Guide Posted: 2001
A L Friedman , Stephen R Lyne
Success and Failure of Activity-Based Techniques: A Long Term Perspective, Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Posted: 1999
Robert S Kaplan
Harvard Business School Cases, Ref No Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,271
RANK
631,616
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies