Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Regulation and Regulation of Accounting: Theories and the Brazilian Case of Convergence to IFRS

23 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2008

Ricardo Lopes Cardoso

Brazilian School of Public and Business Administration; Rio de Janeiro State Univ., FAF

Date Written: July 1, 2008

Abstract

The convergence process of national accounting practices into international standards requires significant changes on accounting regulation. Brazil has many examples of that: the creation of the Brazilian Accounting Standards Committee (CPC), the issuance of the Federal Law 11.638/07, the January 14th Letter to the Market issued by the Brazilian Securities Exchange Commission (CVM), the translation of the Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements (issued by the International Accounting Standards Board), translated by CPC and approved by CVM. It is expected that accountants and auditors are working hard to understand and to get familiar with new standards to adopt and audit them on their firms and/or clients. However, as important as to adopt and audit the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), it is important to understand changes on accounting regulation. Although, there are not been discussed the incentives and consequences of this accounting regulation tsunami in the Latin-American context. This theory-based paper examines the Brazilian IFRS convergence experience in an interdisciplinary perspective. All five theories of regulation examined (Public Interest, Capture, Interests Group, Reale's, and Habermas') are concurrent among them but are helpful in examining IFRS convergence phenomenon; in some cases they provide complementary explanations.

Keywords: Accounting Regulation, Regulation of Accounting, Public Interest Theory, Capture Theory, Interest Groups Theory, Tridimensional Theory, Habermas' Approach, Accounting Theory

JEL Classification: G38, H22, L51, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Cardoso, Ricardo Lopes, Accounting Regulation and Regulation of Accounting: Theories and the Brazilian Case of Convergence to IFRS (July 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1288068 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1288068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Iudícibus
publishing of the book "Mudanças contábeis na lei nº 11.638, de 28-12-2007", by Braga and Almeida; and the second edition of
Contabilidade Geral: uma introdução à Contabilidade Societária Posted: 2008
Wrote many works about law's philosophy, supervised the Commission that created the "new" Civil Code, was awarded with a Doutor honoris causa from many Brazilian and foreigner universities Posted: 2006-04-14
is a philosopher and sociologist, one of the most important authors of the second's generation from the Social Research Institute (Frankfurt)
Jürgen Habermas was born in Dusseldorf (German) in april 18 th Posted: 1929
Tenório
According to Habermas, the public sphere can be describe as a proper network with communication contents, opinion and strategic choices; on it, the communicative ways are filtered with synthesized being condensed to public opinions full of specific term
Further, Tenório , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 1997
Load more
1 Citations
Wiwi Idawati
Effect of Audit Rotation, Audit Fee and Auditor Competence to Motivation Auditor and Implications on Audit Quality (Study in Registered Public Accountant Firms at Bank Indonesia)
18 Pages · Posted: 28 May 2014 · Downloads: 893
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,939
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,144
RANK
19,559
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies