Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exchange Rate Hedging with Foreign Debt in the Spanish Market

45 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2008

Luis Otero González

Universidade de Santiago de Compostela - Faculty of Economic Science and Business Studies

Milagros Vivel Búa

Universidade de Santiago de Compostela - Faculty of Economic Science and Business Studies

Sara Fernandez Lopez

Universidade de Santiago de Compostela - Faculty of Economic Science and Business Studies

Pablo Duran Santomil

Universidade de Santiago de Compostela - Faculty of Economic Science and Business Studies

Date Written: October 25, 2008

Abstract

This paper analyzes the factors determining transactional exchange rate hedging with foreign currency debt for a sample of 56 Spanish non-financial companies listed in 2004. In particular, we analyze the variables that determine the decision to hedge with foreign currency debt as well as hedging volume. We also analyze the interaction between the foreign currency debt and derivatives in the hedging decision. Unlike previous empirical studies, which have attempted to explain the use of foreign currency debt through arguments exclusively stemming from optimal hedging theory, we have complemented the analysis with hypothesis from capital structure theory.

Keywords: Exchange rate risk, hedging and capital theories, foreign debt, probit, logit, multinomial

JEL Classification: F30, G15, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Otero González, Luis and Vivel Búa, Milagros and Fernandez Lopez, Sara and Duran Santomil, Pablo, Exchange Rate Hedging with Foreign Debt in the Spanish Market (October 25, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1289562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1289562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
T Aabo
The importance of corporate foreign debt as an alternative to currency derivatives in actual management of exchange rate exposures
European Financial Management , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 633 - 649 Posted: 2006
George (Yiorgos) Allayannis , Gregory W. Brown , Leora F. Klapper
Exchange Rate Risk Management: Evidence from East Asia
Darden Business School Working Paper No. 01-09; World Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 2606 Pages: 47 Posted: 19 Nov 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
G Allayannis , E Ofek
Exchange Rate Exposure, Hedging, and the Use of Currency Derivatives
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 20 , p. 273 - 296 Posted: 2001
Crossref
E I Altman
A Further Empirical Investigation of the Bankruptcy Cost Question
Journal of Finance , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 1067 - 1089 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,230
RANK
394,952
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Risk Management: Coordinating Corporate Investment and Financing Policies

By Kenneth Froot, David S. Scharfstein, ...

Why Firms Use Currency Derivatives

By Christopher Geczy, Bernadette A. Minton, ...

The Use of Foreign Currency Derivatives and Firm Market Value

By George (yiorgos) Allayannis and James Weston

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies