Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Banks Value Audit Reports or Auditor Reputation? Evidence from Private Spanish Firms

51 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2008

Manuel Cano‐Rodríguez

University of Jaén

Santiago Sánchez Alegría

Universidad Pública de Navarra

Pablo Arenas Torres

University of Jaén

Date Written: October 20, 2008

Abstract

This paper studies the relevance of audit qualifications and auditor selection for the external stakeholders of private companies in code-law countries. Employing a sample of private Spanish firms, we find that the cost of debt is not influenced by auditor opinion, but it is strongly influenced by the selection of a high-quality auditor. These findings suggest that Spanish banks' and lenders' decisions are more influenced by the reputation of the auditor than by the content of the audit report. These results are robust to both the unobserved heterogeneity problem and the potential endogenous nature of the explanatory variables.

Keywords: Auditor Opinion, Auditor reputation, Audit Quality, Cost of Debt

JEL Classification: M49, M41, M47, G12

Suggested Citation:

Cano, Manuel and Sánchez Alegría, Santiago and Torres, Pablo Arenas, Do Banks Value Audit Reports or Auditor Reputation? Evidence from Private Spanish Firms (October 20, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1290562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1290562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
E C Ameen , K Chan , D M Guffey
Information content of qualified audit opinions for overthe-counter firms
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 997 - 1011 Posted: 1994
Crossref
M Arellano
Panel data econometrics Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,248
RANK
172,550
2 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Value of Verification in Debt Financing: Evidence from Private U.S. Firms

By Michael Minnis

Voluntary Audits and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Jeong-bon Kim, Dan A. Simunic, ...

Voluntary Audit and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Dan A. Simunic, Jeong-bon Kim, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies