Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reducing the Barriers to International Trade in Accounting Services: Why it Matters, and the Road Ahead

NYU Working Paper No. EC-00-04

49 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2008

Lawrence J. White

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business, Department of Economics; Stern School of Business, New York University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 2000

Abstract

Accounting has been a lead sector in the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS)negotiations to reduce barriers to trade in professional services. This is no accident. Accounting already has a substantial international component; the largest accounting firms have major international presences and have been eager to operate in less restrictive environments. Accountingis coming to be understood as a vital infrastructural element of financial services, and as finance becomes more global, accounting too should become more global. Similarly, as large businesses enterprises generally have become more international, their need for more international accountingservices has grown. But, despite the considerable international presences of the major accounting firms, virtually all countries maintain various types of restrictions that impede the flow ofaccounting services across borders. The consequences have been higher costs, poorer service to clients, and reduced efficiency, as well as lower quality accounting/auditing standards in many countries. Substantial progress can and should be made to reduce the current barriers to freer trade in accounting services.

Suggested Citation:

White, Lawrence J. and White, Lawrence J., Reducing the Barriers to International Trade in Accounting Services: Why it Matters, and the Road Ahead (May 2000). NYU Working Paper No. EC-00-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1292683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Bernard Ascher
paper delivered at the Conference on (R)Evolution of Quality and Competency Assurance in the Global Marketplace Posted: 1999
Yair Aharoni
Coalitions and Competition: The Globalization of Professional Business Services , p. 121 - 142 Posted: 1993
Laura Altinger , Alice Enders
The Scope and Depth of GATS Commitments
The World Economy , volume 19 , p. 307 - 332 Posted: 1996-05
Crossref
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and National Association of State Boards of Accountancy, Digest of State Accountancy Laws and State Board Regulations Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,214
RANK
106,376
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

New York University Stern School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
Recommended Papers

Theories of Economic Regulation

By Richard A. Posner

Achieving High Quality, Comparable Financial Reporting: A Comparison of Independent Enforcement Bodies in Australia and the United Kingdom

By Ann Tarca and Philip R. Brown

Schumpeter and the Rise of Modern Environmentalism

By Johan A. E. Albrecht and Nikko Gobbin

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies