Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
De Facto Convergence of IFRSs and U.S. GAAP - An Empirical Analysis of Form 20-F Reconciliations of EU Companies

Schmalenbachs Zeitschrift für betriebswirtschaftliche Forschung, Vol. 60, No. 12, pp. 809-845, 2008. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF03372815

Posted: 3 Nov 2008 Last revised: 9 Nov 2023

Michael Dobler

Dresden University of Technology - Faculty of Economics and Business Management

Nina Günther

Technische Universität München - Center for Entrepreneurial and Financial Studies

Date Written: October 31, 2008

Abstract

This paper examines the level of de facto convergence of IFRSs and US GAAP based on Form 20-F reconciliations of 114 EU companies. Our analysis of 1.928 reconciling items illustrates that de facto differences between IFRSs and US GAAP are heterogeneous and often material in both net income and shareholder's equity. Particularly, adjustments for business combinations, intangibles and pensions are predominant. We find significant differences between numerical adjustments (1) of first-time adopters and non-first-time adopters of IFRSs, (2) of companies in the financial and non-financial sector, and (3) of companies domiciled in common law and code law countries with each former group tending to larger adjustments. This implies that adoption effects and institutional factors impact the amount of adjustments. Our overall results indicate a poor level of de facto convergence achieved to date and an inconsistent application of accounting standards. Particularly, results imply earlier profit recognition under US GAAP and more conservative accounting under IFRSs, which are more prevalent in common law countries than in code law countries.

Keywords: accounting convergence, cross listing, Form 20-F, IFRSs, reconciliation, U.S. GAAP

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Dobler, Michael and Günther, Nina, De Facto Convergence of IFRSs and U.S. GAAP - An Empirical Analysis of Form 20-F Reconciliations of EU Companies (October 31, 2008). Schmalenbachs Zeitschrift für betriebswirtschaftliche Forschung, Vol. 60, No. 12, pp. 809-845, 2008. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF03372815, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1292901
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,859
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies