Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Capabilities Approximation of Translog, Generalized Leontief and Quadratic Models

This paper is presented at the National Research Center for Mathematics and Computer Science in the Netherlands (CWI), the International Conference on Computational Management Science, 2006

Posted: 4 Nov 2008

Sourour Baccar

Department of Quantitative Methods

Date Written: May 17, 6

Abstract

We investigate the behaviour of three flexible forms of the cost Function: the Translog, which is the most used in empirical analyses, Generalized Leontief and Symmetric Generalized McFadden, which both have also become popular. Their performances are evaluated by their abilities (i) to respect basic theoretical properties, (ii) to provide plausible estimates of economic and technological characteristics such us values, signs and derivatives of price and Allen elasticities of substitution, technical change, as well as (iii) the precision by which they fit input shares, input-outputs coefficients and unit cost.

This framework is then used to describe the substitution possibilities between capital labour and energy in the three industrial branches of French manufacturing industry. The most noteworthy result is that the Translog form fails to fit the unit cost and furthermore the input-output coefficients while the other two forms give satisfactory results under the same maintained hypothesis and for all three sets of data. We show that the origin of those shortcomings is due in part to the sensitivity of the Translog model to restrictions on parameters allowing for non-neutral technical change and non-homothetic technologies. As a consequence, this form is not suitable when one wants to measure the pure effect of biased technical change on the demand of energy or productivity indicators, for example. Our results suggest that the Translog model is less flexible then the two others. So, care should be attached to several previous studies.

Keywords: Flexible cost function, energy demand, technical change

JEL Classification: C52, D24, O30

Suggested Citation:

Baccar, Sourour, The Capabilities Approximation of Translog, Generalized Leontief and Quadratic Models (May 17, 6). This paper is presented at the National Research Center for Mathematics and Computer Science in the Netherlands (CWI), the International Conference on Computational Management Science, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1293822
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Mathematical Methods & Programming eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies