Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence from the U.S. on the Effect of Auditor Involvement in Assessing Internal Control over Financial Reporting

International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2008 Last revised: 26 Dec 2008

Jean C. Bedard

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Rani Hoitash

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Udi Hoitash

Northeastern University (USA) - Accounting Group

Date Written: November 3, 2008

Abstract

Securities regulators around the world are considering the costs and benefits of alternative policies for providing information to financial markets on corporate internal control. These policy options differ on the level of auditor involvement, among other dimensions. We examine the association of relative auditor involvement and auditor characteristics with Section 302 internal control disclosures made by US non-accelerated filers from 2003-2005. We find more material weaknesses disclosed in the fourth quarter, when there is relatively more auditor involvement, relative to the first three quarters. Clients of larger audit firms have higher disclosure rates (although they are likely less risky due to more stringent client acceptance standards), but this difference is due to fourth quarter disclosures. Audit firms with Section 404 experience also have greater material weakness disclosure, implying process improvement associated with knowledge sharing across engagements. Collectively, our results shed light on ways to increase the effectiveness of internal control regulation.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Sarbanes-Oxley, Section 302, Section 404, Non-accelerated filers, Auditor Quality, Audit Fees, Micro Auditors, International Regulation, Auditor Involvement

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M49, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Bedard, Jean C. and Hoitash, Rani and Hoitash, Udi, Evidence from the U.S. on the Effect of Auditor Involvement in Assessing Internal Control over Financial Reporting (November 3, 2008). International Journal of Auditing, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1294389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity capital Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003-09
Crossref
J Bédard
Sarbanes Oxley internal control requirements and earnings quality', Working paper Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
506
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,001
RANK
127,848
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northeastern University D'Amore-McKim School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Determinants of Weaknesses in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Accruals Quality and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Weili Ge, ...

Internal Control Weakness and Cost of Equity: Evidence from Sox Section 404 Disclosures

By Maria Ogneva, Kannan Raghunandan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies