Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing the Extent of Corporate Compliance with IFRS - The Case of Hungarian Listed Companies

17 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2008

Szilveszter Fekete

Babes-Bolyai University; Corvinus University of Budapest

Dumitru Matis

Babes-Bolyai University

János Lukács

Budapest Corvinus University

Date Written: October 25, 2008

Abstract

Since 2005 European listed companies report their financial figures based on IFRSs. This paper investigates whether Hungarian listed companies comply with IFRS disclosure requirements, identifying some factors associated with the level of compliance. Although the issue of consolidation is not a new topic for Hungarian specialists, the analysis focuses on the disclosure aspects of consolidation because publishing consolidated accounts is considered still a problematic field (Fekete, 2008).

Findings suggest that corporate size and industry type (more specifically being in the IT&C sector) are statistically associated with the extent of compliance with IFRS disclosure requirements. This suggest that big, high tech companies comply best to IRFS rules, possibly because they can benefit the most from them.

Keywords: IAS/IFRS, compliance, disclosure, determinants, Hungary

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M45, M47

Suggested Citation:

Fekete, Szilveszter and Matis, Dumitru and Lukács, János, Factors Influencing the Extent of Corporate Compliance with IFRS - The Case of Hungarian Listed Companies (October 25, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1295722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1295722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Belkaoui , A Kahl
Corporate financial disclosure in Canada. Vancouver: Research monograph of the Canadian Certified General Accountants Association Posted: 1978
K Borbély , L Evans
A matter of principle: Recent developments in Hungarian accounting thought and regulation , volume 3 , p. 135 - 68 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S L Buzby
Company Size, Listed Versus Unlisted Stocks, and the Extent of Financial Disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 16 - 37 Posted: 1975
Crossref
D Cairns
The FT International Accounting Standards Survey Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,601
RANK
38,729
10 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies