Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
They Fought for Trade But Did Trade Win?: An Analysis of the Trends Among Trade Disputes Brought by WTO Member States Before the WTO Dispute Resolution Body

Michigan State Journal of International Law, Vol. 16, p. 315, 2007

39 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2008 Last revised: 17 Nov 2008

Alexandra R. Harrington

Lancaster University Law School; Albany Law School; CISDL

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

Much has been made of the common assumption that crime and bad conduct does not pay, particularly on the level of international crimes and criminal conduct. However, the field of bad conduct in international trade is not as frequently discussed. What does a study of the outcomes of complaints brought before the WTO's dispute resolution body tell us about the uses of that entity for the promotion of trade and the deterrence of improper conduct in the trading arena? What do the records of individual WTO member states in terms of WTO initiated disputes tell us about who uses the WTO, when, with whom, and to what result? This article explores these questions by examining WTO dispute resolution data in several ways. Part II of this article provides background on the WTO's dispute resolution body, its jurisdiction, and its basic procedure. Part III of this article examines the outcomes of cases brought before the WTO for dispute resolution. This Part finds that, quite surprisingly, the majority of cases brought before the WTO never come to fruition. Of those cases that do go further, the majority ate settled through a mutually agreed settlement either before or after judicial proceedings. Interestingly, the incidents of cases which are decided on the merits of the issues presented and conclude at that point are quite low. This Part concludes that the overall record of cases brought to the WTO for dispute resolution is such that this action is possibly more of a bargaining mechanism than a true hope for a positive outcome. Part IV examines the occurrence of disputes at the WTO by country. Each member country which has brought a complaint before the WTO is analyzed separately for total number of complaints, complaints by subject areas, times when the complainant collaborates with other countries, and countries against which complaints are brought. Part IV also examines the number of times that member countries have been brought before the WTO dispute resolution body as respondents. Finally, Part V of this article examines the trends and lessons from the previous parts and concludes that there are import lessons to be learned from the data presented regarding not only the past and current use of the WTO's dispute resolution mechanism, but also its future use by established and newly entering member states. The ultimate conclusion reached by this article is that when WTO member states fight for trade, trade does not always win, but at least there is a strong legal structure in which to fight for trade.

JEL Classification: K33

Suggested Citation:

Harrington, Alexandra R., They Fought for Trade But Did Trade Win?: An Analysis of the Trends Among Trade Disputes Brought by WTO Member States Before the WTO Dispute Resolution Body (2007). Michigan State Journal of International Law, Vol. 16, p. 315, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1300000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
France See , By Country , World , Organization
Posted: 2007-07-25
Crossref
China See , By Country , World , Organization
Posted: 2007-07-25
Crossref
Egypt See , By Country , World , Organization
Posted: 2007-07-25
Crossref
United See , Disputes States , By Country , World , Organization
Posted: 2007-07-25
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,310
RANK
663,174
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies