Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Adopting IASs on the Jordanian Environment: The Perspective of Accountants, Auditors and Academicians 'An Exploratory Study'

International Conference on Business Globalization: Challenges and Opportunities in the 21st Centry

36 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2008

Malek Alsharairi

German Jordanian University (GJU)

Riyadh Jasim Al-Abdullah

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 22, 2008

Abstract

Motivated by the perception, or even the mere fact, that accounting is a social science, which is involved in the process of globalization through the issuance of International Accounting Standards (IASs), this study is conducted in order to examine the impact of adopting the IASs on the Jordanian environment through three dimensions, namely, social, economic and political, from the perspective of accountants auditors and academicians. It is found that adopting IASs by Jordan implies social, economic and political impacts, which can be sorted by being based on the magnitude of the population's agreement on them as follows; economic, political, and then the social. It is recommended that the differences between countries have to be considered when setting any standards related to any social science beside examining their appropriateness and impacts before the application. Moreover, the advantage of economic globalization should be carefully handled, since it holds double-sided effects.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, International Standards, IASs, Harmonization, Social Impact, Economic Impact, Political Impact, Economic Globalization

JEL Classification: M41, O19

Suggested Citation:

Alsharairi, Malek Ahmad and Al-Abdullah, Riyadh Jasim, The Impact of Adopting IASs on the Jordanian Environment: The Perspective of Accountants, Auditors and Academicians 'An Exploratory Study' (April 22, 2008). International Conference on Business Globalization: Challenges and Opportunities in the 21st Centry, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1303862 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1303862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Al-Zou&apos;bi , &amp; Mohammad , Abbas Talafha
The Statistical System SPSS 2 nd Edition Posted: 2003
Jeffrey S Arpan , Hashim , D Dhia
International Dimensions of Accounting Posted: 1984
Shatha J Khateeb
Financial Globalization and the Future of Arab Capital Markets Posted: 2002
Ahmed Belkaoui , Riahi
International Accounting Posted: 1985
Load more
4 Citations
Radhi Al-Hamadeen , Malek Alsharairi , Haya Qaqish
New Trends in Finance and Accounting
, p. 385 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Yasean A. Tahat , Theresa Dunne , Suzanne Fifield , David M. Power
The impact of IFRS 7 on the significance of financial instruments disclosure
Accounting Research Journal , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 241 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Malek Ahmad Alsharairi , Radhi Al-Hamadeen , Frances Issa , Oday Kakish
Interim Financial Reporting and Compliance with IAS 34: The Case of the Jordanian Financial Sector
Alsharairi, M., Al-Hamadeen, R., Issa, F. and Kakish, O. (2015) “Interim Financial Reporting and Compliance with IAS 34: The Case of the Jordanian Financial Sector” International Journal of Business and Social Science. 6 (11): pp. 100-109, · 10 Pages · Posted: 12 May 2016 · Last revised: 13 May 2016 · Downloads: 267
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Abdulla A. Rahman Ali
The Level of Adoption of the International Accounting Standard 34 (IAS 34.): The Case of Bahrain Listed Companies
Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.1 (2020) · 10 Pages · Posted: 23 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 140
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,414
RANK
290,067
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

An Investigation of Compliance With International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council Member States

By Bader Al-shammari, Philip R. Brown, ...

Dimensions of National Culture and the Accounting Environment - the Spanish Case

By Oriol Amat, John Blake, ...

Are IFRS Income Statements Comparable?

By Christopher Hossfeld

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies