Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expropriation Through Loan Guarantees to Related Parties: Evidence from China

Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 33, No. 1, 2009

35 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2008 Last revised: 10 Apr 2010

Henk Berkman

University of Auckland Business School

Rebel A. Cole

Florida Atlantic University

Jiang Lawrence Fu

Standard Charter Bank

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 3, 2007

Abstract

We identify and analyze a sample of publicly traded Chinese firms that issued loan guarantees to their related parties (usually the controlling block holders), thereby expropriating wealth from minority shareholders. Our results show that the issuance of related guarantees is less likely at smaller firms, at more profitable firms and at firms with higher growth prospects. We also find that the identity and ownership of block holders affect the likelihood of expropriation. In addition, we use this sample to provide new evidence on the relation between tunneling and proxies for firm value and financial performance. We find that Tobin's Q, ROA and dividend yield are significantly lower, and that leverage is significantly higher, at firms that issued related guarantees.

Keywords: Block holder, China, connected party transaction, corporate governance, expropriation, related party transaction, Tobin's Q, tunneling

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, G15

Suggested Citation:

Berkman, Henk and Cole, Rebel A. and Fu, Jiang Lawrence, Expropriation Through Loan Guarantees to Related Parties: Evidence from China (September 3, 2007). Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 33, No. 1, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1305217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
K Bae , J Kang , J Kim
Tunneling or value added? Evidence from mergers by Korean business groups
The Journal of Finance , volume 57 , p. 2695 - 2740 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Bennedsen , D Wolfenzon
The balance of power in closely held corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 58 , p. 113 - 139 Posted: 2000
Crossref
H Berkman , R Cole , J Fu
Agency conflicts, expropriation and firm value: Evidence from securities-market regulation in China
International Conference on Corporate Governance in Asia and China Posted: 2005-03-11
M Bertrand , P Mehta , S Mullainathan
Ferreting out tunneling: An application to Indian Business Groups
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , p. 121 - 148 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,661
RANK
84,935
11 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies