Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing Countries' Views on Financial Reporting Standards for Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises (SMEs): The Case of Ghana

Posted: 23 Nov 2008

Samuel Nana Yaw Simpson

University of Ghana - Business School

Date Written: November, 21 2008

Abstract

There have been calls for different reporting standards for big firms and small firms over the years due to unique attributes and challenges of SMEs especially in the area of financial reporting as well as the increasingly significant roles they play in the economies of most countries. Thus, it is argued that, SMEs need a financial accounting and reporting framework which would: be simple, understandable and user-friendly; produce useful management information; be as standardized as possible; be flexible enough to accommodate the growth of business and increase the potential of some SMEs as they expand to use international accounting standards (IAS); be easily reconcilable for taxation purposes; and recognize the environment in which SMEs operate (e.g. UNCTAD's 18th Session, 2001).

However, the IASB exposure draft on IFRS for SMEs and some discussion papers on this subject have been criticized for focusing on entities that are not defined as SMEs in developing nations' terms, but are instead more aligned to the US definition of an SME as well as not taking into account the uniqueness and challenges of SMEs in developing countries.

Therefore, this study seeks to examine the views of the stakeholders who have direct or indirect association with the financial reporting of SMEs in Ghana, a developing country. It also assesses the suitability of current reporting standards for SMEs in Ghana.

Results show that, there is lack of uniformity in the application of reporting standards by SMEs and the general level of compliance is low, citing problems such as lack of skilled accounting personnel, high cost in applying standards and low levels of awareness of existing standards. Besides, the level of awareness on IFRSSE which SMEs in Ghana must be compliant by the year 2009 is very low.

Keywords: SMEs, Differential Reporting, Ghana

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Simpson, Samuel Nana Yaw, Developing Countries' Views on Financial Reporting Standards for Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises (SMEs): The Case of Ghana (November, 21 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1305141
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,857
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies