Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Alternative Tax Reform Models on the Income Distribution of Liberal Professions and Other Occupations

FFB-Diskussionspapier Nr. 64

47 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2008 Last revised: 12 May 2009

Joachim Merz

Research Institute on Professions; Research Institute on Professions; Leuphana University of Lueneburg; Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA)

Henning Stolze

Research Institute on Professions / Leuphana University

Markus Zwick

Federal Statistical Office of Germany - Research Data Center

Date Written: July 2006

Abstract

Based on comparisons between the former German tax system and the tax reform of 2000/2005 and other tax systems which were up for discussion this study investigates the (re-) distribution effects on the self employed (professions and entrepreneurs) and other socioeconomic groups. Additional the distribution of inequality of single socio-economic subgroups in comparison to the overall inequality is analysed by using the decomposition method. The analysis is based on anonymised microdata files of the German Income Tax Statistics, provided by the Fedaral Statistical Office. These files allow significant analysis of selfemployed. In contrast conventianal surveys produce only insufficient conclusions about income and tax burden of self employed.

Note: Downloadable document is in German.

Keywords: alternative tax reform models, income distribution, (liberal) professions, selfemployed

JEL Classification: D31, G1, J44, J48

Suggested Citation:

Merz, Joachim and Merz, Joachim and Stolze, Henning and Zwick, Markus, Effects of Alternative Tax Reform Models on the Income Distribution of Liberal Professions and Other Occupations (July 2006). FFB-Diskussionspapier Nr. 64, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1307616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1307616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
192 References
S Bach , B Bartholmai
Möglichkeiten zur Modellierung hoher Einkommen auf Grundlage der Einkommensteuerstatistik , volume 212 Posted: 2000
Mcl L Blackburn
Interpreting the Magnitude of Changes in Measures of Income Inequality
Journal of Econometrics , volume 42 , p. 21 - 25 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Thesen der Einkommensteuer-Kommission zur Steuerfreistellung des Existenzminimums ab 1996 und zur Reform der Einkommensteuer; Schriftenreihe des Bundesministeriums der Finanzen
Heft , volume 55 Posted: 1995
C Bork
Verteilungswirkungen des Karlsruher Entwurfs zur Einkommensteuerreform, Wirtschaftsdienst, 81. Jg , p. 480 - 488 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,384
RANK
841,621
192 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

MICSIM - Concept, Developments and Applications of a PC-Microsimulation Model for Research and Teaching

By Joachim Merz

Daily Working Hour Arrangments and Income of Liberal Professions - New Results from the German Time Use Survey

By Joachim Merz

Distribution Effects of the German Fiscal Reform 2000/2005 Compared to the ,Karlsruher Concept - Effects on the Income Distribution of Self-Employed Persons (Liberal Professions, Entrepreneurs) and Employees

By Joachim Merz and Markus Zwick

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies