Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Reform and Organisational Change - Evidence from Australia's IFRS Adventure

MGSM Working Paper No. 2008-13

23 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2008

Tyrone M. Carlin

Southern Cross University

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Date Written: November 28, 2008

Abstract

While the adoption of IFRS did not visit radical change upon all aspects of the financial accounting and reporting apparatus, this was not in the case of goodwill accounting and reporting, where almost every facet of prior practice was rendered redundant. Accordingly, careful scrutiny of the manner in which firms responded to new reporting requirements as they shift from one goodwill reporting regime to another provides an avenue through which evidence on how organisations cope with the rigours of complex material reporting change may be gathered. This is a question with potentially significant implications for a range of stakeholders including auditors, financial analysts, regulators and report users.

This paper reports the results of a study of the goodwill reporting practices adopted by a sample of 50 large Australian listed firms which disclosed the existence of goodwill in each of the first two years in which they produced financial statements pursuant to IFRS. The quality and technical accuracy of the goodwill disclosures produced by these organisations together with an assessment of evidence of variation in these over time provides an evidentiary basis for analysis. The focal question pondered in light of this evidentiary base pertains to the nature of organisational responses to changes such as those brought about by continued development and reform of financial reporting standards.

Keywords: Goodwill, Impairment, Financial reporting, Creative accounting, Australia, Organisational Change

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Tyrone M. and Finch, Nigel, Financial Reporting Reform and Organisational Change - Evidence from Australia's IFRS Adventure (November 28, 2008). MGSM Working Paper No. 2008-13 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1308782 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1308782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
As to which, see AASB 136
AASB , volume 136
Crossref
AASB , volume 136
Crossref
S Burchell , C Clubb , A Hopwood , J Hughes , J Nahapiet
The Roles of Accounting in Organisations and Society , volume 5 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,271
RANK
210,914
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies