Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost of Capital Effects and Changes in Growth Expectations Around U.S. Cross-Listings

Journal of Financial Economics, Vol. 93, No. 3, pp. 428-454, 2009

Posted: 3 Dec 2008 Last revised: 26 Aug 2009

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2008

Abstract

This paper examines whether cross-listing in the U.S. reduces foreign firms' costs of capital. While prior studies show that U.S. cross-listings are associated with substantial increases in firm value, the sources of these valuation effects are not well understood. We estimate cost of capital effects implied by market prices and analyst forecasts, which accounts for changes in growth expectations around cross-listings. We find strong evidence that firms with cross-listings on U.S. exchanges experience a significant decrease in their cost of capital between 70 to 120 basis points. These effects are sustained and still present after the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Consistent with the bonding hypothesis, we find smaller cost of capital reductions for firms that cross-list in the over-the-counter market and for exchange-listed firms from countries with stronger home-country institutions. For exchange-traded cross-listings, the reduction in cost of capital accounts for more than half of the increase in value around cross-listings, whereas for the other types of cross-listings the valuation effects are primarily attributable to contemporaneous revisions in growth expectations.

Keywords: Corporate governance, cross-listing, bonding hypothesis, cost of equity, disclosure, law and finance, international finance

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, G38, G30, G38, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hail, Luzi and Leuz, Christian, Cost of Capital Effects and Changes in Growth Expectations Around U.S. Cross-Listings (December 1, 2008). Journal of Financial Economics, Vol. 93, No. 3, pp. 428-454, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1309644
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,385
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies