Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Transition Economies: A Comparative Study of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia

Florida International University Chapman Graduate School of Business Working Paper

13 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2008

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Sanjoy Bose

Zayed University

Date Written: December 2, 2008

Abstract

Corporate governance has become an increasingly important issue in recent years, both as a result of corporate scandals and because more than 20 transition economies in the former Soviet Union, Eastern and Central Europe are in the process of converting their economies from a central planning model to a market model.

The World Bank has published a series of reports on corporate governance as part of its project on the Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC). The corporate governance principles in each ROSC are benchmarked against the OECD's Principles of Corporate Governance.

The present study uses the data from the ROSC studies on Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia and assigns points based on the extent of compliance with the OECD's Principles in the categories of shareholder rights, equitable treatment of shareholders, the role of stakeholders in corporate governance, disclosure and transparency and board responsibilities and compares the relative scores using a five-point Likert Scale.

Keywords: corporate governance, transition economy, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Caucasus, ROSC, OECD, Soviet Union

JEL Classification: G34, O53, O57, M41, P20

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Bose, Sanjoy, Corporate Governance in Transition Economies: A Comparative Study of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia (December 2, 2008). Florida International University Chapman Graduate School of Business Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1310451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1310451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Cadbury
Report of the Committee on Financial Aspects of Corporate Governance Posted: 1992-12-01
Instituting Corporate Governance in Developing, Emerging and Transitional Economies: A Handbook Posted: 2002
J J Chen
Corporatisation of China's State-Owned Enterprises and Corporate Governance
Corporate Ownership & Control , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 82 - 93 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Clarke
Haemorrhaging Tigers: The Power of International Financial Markets and the Weaknesses of Asian Modes of Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 116 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,591
RANK
178,213
18 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance in Transition and Developing Economies: A Case Study of Brazil

By Robert W. Mcgee

Insider Trading Regulation in Transition Economies

By Robert W. Mcgee

Timeliness of Financial Reporting in the Russian Energy Sector

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies