Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions: Addressing the Taxation Issues from an Indian Perspective

Corporate Professionals Today, CPT, Vol. 13. No. 6, p. 525, 2008

15 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2008 Last revised: 26 Aug 2009

Sayantan Gupta

Hidayatullah National Law University, Raipur, India

Date Written: December 4, 2008

Abstract

The boom in cross border mergers and acquisitions (M&A) has given new urgency to understanding and managing the complex tax consequences of international expansion. There are very little globally accepted norms regarding tax law legislations. With India occupying an increasingly important place on the world stage, there is a need for India to mature in relation to administration of tax laws. This provides with an adequate research area. This paper explores the available tax laws that govern the cross border deals involving India. The debate over a couple of taxation issues has led to a few amendments by virtue of the Finance Act, 2008. This would have a major impact on deals with a country with which India do not have a double taxation avoidance agreement (DTAA). The major legal battles including the Vodafone dispute which would decide the fate of a large chunk of Foreign Direct Investments into India is much awaited and the challenge lies in balancing the interest of the investors and the revenue authorities.

Keywords: M&A, tax, India

JEL Classification: G24, G31, H25, G15

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Sayantan, Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions: Addressing the Taxation Issues from an Indian Perspective (December 4, 2008). Corporate Professionals Today, CPT, Vol. 13. No. 6, p. 525, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1311102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
942
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,314
RANK
56,823
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies