Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Comprehensive Income Issue in Europe

46 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2008 Last revised: 31 Aug 2009

Igor Goncharov

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Allan Hodgson

University of Queensland - Faculty of Business, Economics and Law; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: December 8, 2008

Abstract

The recent financial crisis and the lobbying of European politicians and banks have led to a vigorous debate about ‘fair value’ gains and losses and highlights plans by current standard setters. The IASB Discussion Paper (2008), Preliminary Views on Financial Statement Presentation promises to extend the ‘fair value’ concept into an aggregated comprehensive income statement. We augment the debate by providing empirical findings on information, measurement, prediction and conservatism issues. Aggregated comprehensive income is found to be inferior to GAAP net income as a general valuation and prediction metric, and switches the conservative attributes of income towards a more timely recognition of good news over bad news. Results are robust to country specific regressions, controls for non-linearities, the impact of reporting incentives, and the underlying accounting framework (local GAAP, US GAAP, IFRS). Disaggregated components are incrementally more value relevant for analysts. For regulators the choice about income measurement boils down to a dilemma whether to ignore the volatile and complex price signals of unrealised gains and losses, to service the narrower demands from the analyst community, or to reduce the conservative role that accounting plays in agency contracting. Our research supports a disaggregated approach without mixing the function and nature attributes of income.

Keywords: comprehensive income, value relevance, IFRS, accounting conservatism

JEL Classification: M41, G12

Suggested Citation:

Goncharov, Igor and Hodgson, Allan C., The Comprehensive Income Issue in Europe (December 8, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1313134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1313134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
AAA Financial Accounting Standards Committee
An issues paper on comprehensive income. Accounting Horizons , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 120 - 126 Posted: 1997
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Association for Investment Management and Research (AIMR). 1993. Financial Reporting in the 1990's and Beyond
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,097
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,648
RANK
45,884
4 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies