Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Analysis of the Perceptions About Full Cost Accounting: A Study of the Spanish Energy Industry (Percepciones sobre la contabilidad de costes ecológicos completos: análisis empírico del sector energético)

Revista Espanola de Financiación y Contabilidad, Vol. 35, No. 131, pp. 225-254, 2006

30 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2008 Last revised: 16 Jul 2009

Manuel Fernández Chulián

Universidad Pablo de Olavide

Carlos Larrinaga

University of Burgos

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

By means of full cost accounting, firms will be able to inform about the contribution of their activities to the achievement of sustainable development through the communication of their externalities expressed in monetary terms. Given that previous studies have focused on specific cases, in the present research a cross-section analysis of Spanish firms belonging to the energy industry has been carried out to inquire the managers' perceptions about this new tool. Resultant opinions are different depending on the strategic positioning adopted by the firms. Those with a more active strategy exhibit more availability with regard to the possibility of implementation and experimentation with full cost accounting.

Keywords: Full Cost Accounting, Externalities, Energy industry, Managers perceptions

Suggested Citation:

Fernández Chulián, Manuel and Larrinaga, Carlos, Empirical Analysis of the Perceptions About Full Cost Accounting: A Study of the Spanish Energy Industry (Percepciones sobre la contabilidad de costes ecológicos completos: análisis empírico del sector energético) (2006). Revista Espanola de Financiación y Contabilidad, Vol. 35, No. 131, pp. 225-254, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1314890
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
Artículos Doctrinales , p. 225 - 254
Crossref
Percepciones sobre contabilidad de costes ecológicos completos: análisis empírico en el sector energético español 244
Crossref
Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad
Número Extraordinario , Aeca Congreso , Oviedo
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,374
RANK
478,514
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Socially Responsible Investment eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies