Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Environmental Reporting in Organizational Change: The Case of the Balearic Tourist Sector (El Papel de la Información Medioambiental en el Cambio Organizativo: el caso del sector turístico balear)

Revista Espanola de Financiación y Contabilidad, Vol. 35, No. 130, pp. 501-522, 2006

22 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2008 Last revised: 16 Jul 2009

Carlos Larrinaga

University of Burgos

Antoni Llull

University of the Balearic Islands - Facultat de Ciències Econòmiques i Empresarials

Miquel Perello

University of the Balearic Islands - Facultat de Ciències Econòmiques i Empresarials

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

Environmental accounting has been seen as a way of increasing visibility and empowering stakeholders, concerned by the environmental effects of companies. This would lead to an organizational change. Earlier critique to this view led Gray et al. (1995) to study the role of accounting in the process of organizational change. Taking this theoretical framework as a starting point, this paper studies how the obligation to report for all the companies that in the tourist sector are certified by EMAS impact on organizational change. The empirical study in the Balearic tourist sector, based on semi-structured interviews, leads to conclude that environmental reporting is being used to improve the image of organizations that are not experimenting dramatic changes, but only undertaking limited initiatives. Conversely to the evidence found in other studies, the lack of public pressure leads these companies not to use environmental reporting as a way of controlling and limiting the environmental issue.

Suggested Citation:

Larrinaga, Carlos and Llull, Antoni and Perello, Miquel, The Role of Environmental Reporting in Organizational Change: The Case of the Balearic Tourist Sector (El Papel de la Información Medioambiental en el Cambio Organizativo: el caso del sector turístico balear) (2006). Revista Espanola de Financiación y Contabilidad, Vol. 35, No. 130, pp. 501-522, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1314855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,297
RANK
580,215
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies