Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Tax-Free Savings Accounts: Promises and Pressures

Canadian Tax Journal/ Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 57, No. 3, 2009

29 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2008 Last revised: 22 Oct 2009

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Date Written: October 19, 2009

Abstract

Tax-free savings accounts ("TFSAs") became available in Canada in January 2009. A TFSA is a "tax prepaid" or "yield-exempt" investment account that does not provide any deduction for contributions and allows for tax-free compounding of investment returns in addition to tax-free withdrawals at any time. This article examines the theory surrounding tax-prepaid and tax-postpaid accounts and shows that there are important theoretical and practical differences in how the two types of tax-advantaged savings accounts operate. The paper predicts that the TFSA regime will not provide a significant incentive to save and that most contributions will not be "new" savings but will be amounts that would have been saved in any event or, equivalently, will be assets shuffled from taxable savings into the tax-free accounts.

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin, Assessing Tax-Free Savings Accounts: Promises and Pressures (October 19, 2009). Canadian Tax Journal/ Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 57, No. 3, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1315562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Adam See , Smith
The Theory of Moral Sentiments (1759; repr , volume 311 Posted: 2000
Laurie R See , Venkat Santos , Lakshminarayanan
Innate Constraints on Judgment and Decision-Making? Insights from Children and Nonhuman Primates
foundations and the future , volume 3 , p. 293 - 310 Posted: 2007
Michael S See , Jane K Barr , Dokko
16, where it is reported that a "large majority" of low- and middle-income taxpayers "would prefer to over-withhold their paycheck and receive a refund, rather than under-withhold or withhold the 'right' amount
Divisions of Research & statistics and Monetary Affairs Posted: 2008-11
Ling Chu , Alan Macnaughton
Canadian Personal Tax Refunds: Voluntary or Involuntary?" paper presented at the Tax Policy Research symposium: Perspectives from Law and Accounting Posted: 2006
Load more
1 Citations
Alexandre Laurin
TFSAs: Time for a Tune-Up
C.D. Howe Institute e-Brief 298, 2019 · 18 Pages · Posted: 10 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 94
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
539
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,954
RANK
118,334
1 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies