Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategies, Decentralization, and Controls in Internationalized Finnish Firms

Finnish Journal of Business Economics, No. 1, pp. 35-57, 2001

Posted: 15 Dec 2008 Last revised: 22 Dec 2008

Lili-Anne Kihn

University of Tampere, Faculty of Management

Abstract

Data collected from 103 senior managers from 60 internationalized Finnish firms suggests that, on average, headquarters (HQs) have placed a very high weight on formal controls, and selected relatively high degrees of decision-making decentralization and multidomestic strategy. The degree of multidomestic (/global) strategy appears to partially impact the relative weight placed on controls in the performance evaluation of overseas managers. While an indirect link is not detected through decentralization, a relatively small, but statistically significant, direct link is found between the degree of multidomestic (/global) strategy and the relative weight placed on financial (/operational and behavioral) controls. This suggests that HQs may use controls to facilitate the implementation of a selected strategy, even if the degree of decentralization is not influenced by the strategy.

Keywords: Controls, Decentralization, Managerial performance evaluation, Multidomestic and global strategies, survey

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kihn, Lili-Anne, Strategies, Decentralization, and Controls in Internationalized Finnish Firms. Finnish Journal of Business Economics, No. 1, pp. 35-57, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1315410
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,522
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies