Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants of Multiple Forms of Controls in Foreign Subsidiary Manager Evaluations

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation (IJAAPE), Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 157-182, 2008

Posted: 14 Dec 2008 Last revised: 16 Dec 2008

Lili-Anne Kihn

University of Tampere, Faculty of Management

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

This study explores how the determinants of financial, nonfinancial and behavioural controls vary in foreign subsidiary manager performance evaluations. Possible impacts of the following factors are analyzed: extent of geographical dispersion, decentralization and perceived environmental changes. Hypotheses are tested, using principal component and multiple regression analysis, with data collected from annual reports and from 103 top managers from a wide range of Finnish business unit headquarters. The results suggest that, in MNCs, top management's emphasis on financial controls tends to remain very high, regardless of the contingencies analyzed. However, the data support several regularities between the factors examined and nonfinancial controls in particular and behavioural controls to a smaller extent. This, in turn, leads to variations in the relative emphasis on financial controls.

Keywords: behavioural control, financial control, management control systems, managerial performance evaluation, multinational companies, non-financial control, output control, survey

JEL Classification: G34, M40, M41, M46, M47, M12

Suggested Citation:

Kihn, Lili-Anne, The Determinants of Multiple Forms of Controls in Foreign Subsidiary Manager Evaluations (2008). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation (IJAAPE), Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 157-182, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1315310
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
757
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies