Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compensation Objectives and Business Unit Pay Strategy

Chicago Booth School of Business Research Paper No. 08-24

56 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2008 Last revised: 8 Nov 2013

Joseph Gerakos

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College

Christopher D. Ittner

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Frank Moers

Maastricht University School of Business and Economics; European Centre for Corporate Engagement (ECCE)

Date Written: October 28, 2013

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of attraction, retention, and incentive objectives on business unit pay strategy. Economic and psychological theories argue that differences in compensation objectives should lead to variations in organizations’ pay strategies, including decisions regarding the level of pay relative to its labor market and the emphasis on different compensation elements. However, compensation theories provide conflicting implications regarding the use of various pay practices to achieve these objectives. Data from 173 European business units (each belonging to a different firm) indicate that the importance of attraction, retention, and incentive objectives are all positively related to the provision of higher relative cash pay levels, but that the proportion of workers eligible for variable cash pay is only associated with incentive objectives. Although compensation theories highlight the potential use of benefits for attraction and incentive purposes, the units in our sample primarily provide benefits for retention purposes. Broad-based stock option grant eligibility is positively associated with incentive and attraction purposes, but negatively associated with retention objectives, despite claims that options' vesting provisions enhance their retention advantages. Stock grant eligibility is also positively associated with incentive objectives, but has little relation to either attraction or retention objectives. Further tests indicate that the various pay elements can be complementary or substitute means for achieving the various compensation objectives. National labor market, regulatory, and tax differences influence the use of the various pay elements, but do not subsume the influence of the organization’s internal attraction, retention, and incentive objectives.

JEL Classification: J33, H24, H25, J40, M40

Suggested Citation:

Gerakos, Joseph and Ittner, Christopher D. and Moers, Frank, Compensation Objectives and Business Unit Pay Strategy (October 28, 2013). Chicago Booth School of Business Research Paper No. 08-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1316434 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1316434
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
J Core , W Guay
Stock option plans for non-­--executive employees
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 61 , p. 253 - 87 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Anja Decressin , Julia Lane , Julia Lane , Kristin McCue , Martha Harrison Stinson
Employer-Provided Benefit Plans, Workforce Composition and Firm Outcomes
LEHD Technical Paper No. TP-2003-06 Pages: 44 Posted: 3 Jan 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Dye , R Antle
Self-­--selection via fringe benefits
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 2 , p. 388 - 411 Posted: 1984
Crossref
European Taxation
European Union Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
854
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,392
RANK
65,189
2 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies