Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Bonds as Financing Vehicle in Central- and Eastern Europe

Proceedings of the 11th Annual Conference on Marketing and Business Strategies for Central and Eastern Europe, Vienna, 2003

Posted: 19 Dec 2008 Last revised: 10 Feb 2011

Peter R. Haiss

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business; UniCredit Bank Austria; IES Vienna - Institute for the International Education of Students

Stefan Marin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

The aim of the paper is to discuss the use of corporate bonds in financial strategies in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) and repercussions to the transition progress. We provide empirical data on the growing use of corporate bonds in CEE, discuss the level of development of the domestic corporate bond markets and the implications for company finance and the transition process. We argue that the comparatively low level of development of the domestic corporate bond markets may create impediments to economic growth during the continuing transition in the CEE. We discuss future prospects for CEE bond markets, the relationship to foreign direct investment and bank loans, and changes in financial strategies.

Keywords: Transition Progress, Financial Strategies, Corporate Bonds, FDI, Central European Countries

JEL Classification: E44, F15, F33, F36, G12, G15, G21, P34, O16, O57

Suggested Citation:

Haiss, Peter R. and Marin, Stefan, Corporate Bonds as Financing Vehicle in Central- and Eastern Europe (2003). Proceedings of the 11th Annual Conference on Marketing and Business Strategies for Central and Eastern Europe, Vienna, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1317645
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,344
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies