Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Interest Rate Pass-Through: Empirical Evidences from Asian Countries

Posted: 18 Dec 2008 Last revised: 27 Dec 2008

Chin-Wen Huang

CUNY - The Graduate Center; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 1, 2007

Abstract

This paper examines the rigidity of bank retail interest rates using the data from seven developing Asian countries. Empirical results, based on an error correction model, suggest that the retail bank rates in these countries follow similar sluggish adjustment processes as those in the euro area. In general, retail rates adjust to market rates with some delays, and the degrees of intermediate and long term pass-through vary across products, maturities, and the level of development of financial markets.

Keywords: Retail Bank Interest Rates, Interest Rate Pass-Through

JEL Classification: E43, G21

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Chin-Wen and Huang, Chin-Wen, Bank Interest Rate Pass-Through: Empirical Evidences from Asian Countries (October 1, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1317810
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
933
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies