Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board of Directors and Opportunistic Earnings Management: Evidence from India

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 23, No. 4, 2008

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2008/07

Posted: 21 Dec 2008

Jayati Sarkar

Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR)

Subrata Sarkar

Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR)

Kaustav Sen

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Date Written: December 20, 2008

Abstract

Using a sample of 500 large companies over a two-year period, we examine the impact of board characteristics on opportunistic earnings management in India, a large emerging economy. In addition to board independence, we analyze how characteristics that proxy for the 'quality' of inside and outside directors affect the role of boards in curbing earnings management. Our results indicate that it is not board independence per se, but rather board quality that is important for earnings management. We find that diligent boards are associated with lower earnings management, while boards that have directors with multiple appointments exhibit higher earnings management. With respect to inside directors, our results indicate that chief executive officer (CEO) duality and presence of controlling shareholders on the board increases earnings management. We also find that domestic institutional owners, one of our key control variables, act as a compensating control mechanism to mitigate the detrimental influence of controlling shareholders on earnings management. Our results complement the existing literature by analyzing the role of the board in reducing earnings management in emerging economies such as India, where the structures of business organizations are different from those in developed markets.

JEL Classification: G15, G34, M41, M43, M47

Suggested Citation:

Sarkar, Jayati and Sarkar, Subrata and Sen, Kaustav, Board of Directors and Opportunistic Earnings Management: Evidence from India (December 20, 2008). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 23, No. 4, 2008, Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2008/07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1318704
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,254
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies