Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Activity-Based Costing Method: Development and Applications

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research and Audit Practices, Vol. VIII, No. 1, p. 7-22

18 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2010 Last revised: 26 Dec 2018

Gregory Wegmann

University of Burgundy - IAE Dijon School of Management, CREGO EA 7317

Date Written: December 23, 2008

Abstract

This paper analyzes the management accounting applications, which try to improve the Activity-Based Costing (ABC) method. First, the paper describes them using the Strategic Management Accounting (SMA) stream. Then it presents the main features of these applications. Second, the paper examines in detail two of these features: the widening of the analysis perimeter and the relevant level of details to analyze the costs. Subsequently, it analyzes several proposals, such as Customer-Driven ABC, Interorganizational Cost Management (IOCM), Resource Consumption Accounting (RCA) and Time-Driven ABC (TDABC). Finally, it describes an experience observed in the IT supply European division of an international group. This group experiments, what we call an 'Activity-Based Supply Chain Costing Tool to manage its interorganizational relations.

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M47

Suggested Citation:

Wegmann, Grégory, The Activity-Based Costing Method: Development and Applications (December 23, 2008). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research and Audit Practices, Vol. VIII, No. 1, p. 7-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1319665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A A Al-Hebry
Proposed framework to determine appropriateness of cost accounting methods. Cost Management Posted: 2017-03
J Antos , J A Brimson
Driving Value Using Activity-based Budgeting Posted: 1999
Ch Argyris , D A Schön
Organizational Learning, Readings Posted: 1978
R Balakrishnan , A J Pugely , A S Shah
Modeling Resource Use with Time Equations: Empirical Evidence
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7,076
ABSTRACT VIEWS
21,439
RANK
2,310
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Compared Activity-Based Costing Case Studies in the Information System Departments of Two Groups in France: A Strategic Management Accounting Approach

By Gregory Wegmann

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies