Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Knowledge Combinations and the Survival of Financial Services Ventures

Journal of Evolutionary Economics, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2008

Karl Wennberg

Linkoping University - Institute for Analytical Sociology (IAS)

Date Written: January 1, 2008

Abstract

This paper investigates the role of knowledge in the evolution of new financial services ventures in Sweden between 1990 and 2002. Drawing upon economic theories of human capital and spin-out entrepreneurship, we investigate whether knowledge from prior employment in the financial and technological industries facilitates the survival of new entrepreneurial firms. Based on a database tracking the evolution of 1,077 financial services ventures, we find that firms with more extensive knowledge from the financial services and high-tech sectors have higher chances of survival than firms with more narrow knowledge bases. Our findings offer contributions to the emerging literature on spin-out entrepreneurship and to research on entrepreneurship in services.

Keywords: Entrepreneurship, Spin-out, Spin-off, Knowledge, Financial services, Survival analysis

JEL Classification: L11, L26, M13, L84

Suggested Citation:

Wennberg, Karl, Knowledge Combinations and the Survival of Financial Services Ventures (January 1, 2008). Journal of Evolutionary Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1319303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Agarwal , R Echambadi , A Franco , M B Sarkar
Knowledge Transfer through Inheritance: Spin-out Generation, Development and Survival
Journal , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 501 - 522 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Anderson , M Tushman
Organisational environments and industry exit: the effects of uncertainty, munificence and complexity
Industrial and Corporate Change , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 675 - 711 Posted: 2001
Crossref
C Armington , Z Acs
Job creation and persistence in services and manufacturing
Journal of Evolutionary Economics , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 309 - 325 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Audia , C Rider
Entrepreneurs as organisational products: Revisited
The Psychology of Entrepreneurship Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,979
RANK
521,427
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reconceptualizing Entrepreneurial Exit: Divergent Exit Routes and Their Drivers

By Karl Wennberg, Johan Wiklund, ...

The Roles of R&D in New Firm Growth

By Erik Stam and Karl Wennberg

A Real Options Model of Stepwise Entry Into Self-Employment

By Karl Wennberg, Timothy B. Folta, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies