Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competing Accounting Treatments for Emission Rights: A Capital Market Perspective

54 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2009 Last revised: 31 May 2009

Stefan Veith

University of Applied Sciences Bremen - School of International Business Bremen

Joerg R. Werner

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management - Accounting Department

Jochen Zimmermann

University of Bremen - Chair of Accounting and Control; University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Date Written: May 8, 2009

Abstract

This study provides comparative tests for the decision usefulness of four accounting alternatives for emission rights. In current accounting practice, cost-based net approaches as well as cost- and market-based gross approaches coexist. Modelling the available accounting treatments as reporting alternatives for a sample of the major polluters within the EU ETS, we present empirical evidence on their suitability in a market valuation setting. We find that the cost-based net approach provides additional information while gross methods, even the full market-based disclosures, do not. We thus show that an increase in reporting complexity does not always yield superior information con-tent. Our results contribute to discussions of the economic impact of emission trading and to appropriate accounting treatments of such schemes.

Keywords: Market valuation, emission rights, emission trade, accounting choices, gross and net approaches, fair value

JEL Classification: M41, M47, K23

Suggested Citation:

Veith, Stefan and Werner, Jörg Richard and Zimmermann, Jochen and Zimmermann, Jochen, Competing Accounting Treatments for Emission Rights: A Capital Market Perspective (May 8, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1323810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1323810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The Value Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A S Ahmed
Accounting earnings and future economic rents: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 400 Posted: 1994
E S Amundsen , J B Mortensen
The Danish Green Certificate System: some simple analytical results
Energy Economics , volume 23 , issue 5 , p. 489 - 509 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Arce , A Mora
Empirical evidence of the effect of European accounting differences on the stock market valuation of earnings and book value
European Accounting Review , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 573 - 599 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
658
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,155
RANK
91,685
4 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Risk and Return from Factors

By Louis K.c. Chan, J. Karaceski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies