Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Effective Tax Burden in the Real World

32 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2009 Last revised: 22 Jan 2009

Vito Polito

Cardiff Business School

Date Written: January 6, 2009

Abstract

This paper argues that forward-looking indices of the effective tax burden on income from capital, namely effective marginal and average tax rates, are negatively biased because traditional models overlook dividend constraints associated with financial tax incentives, such as accelerated depreciation. The paper presents measures of the two indices adjusted to remove the bias and compares the new indices with the traditional ones. Numerical simulations carried out to quantify the magnitude of the bias for France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and the United Kingdom give evidence of sizable distortions in the unadjusted indices and, in turn, suggest significant mis-measurement in the current assessment of the effective tax burden.

Keywords: Capital income taxation, tax burden, corporate income tax, financial reporting

JEL Classification: H25, H32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Polito, Vito, Measuring the Effective Tax Burden in the Real World (January 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1323710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1323710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Alexander D , S Archer
Miller European Accounting Guide Posted: 2003
J S Alworth
Investment incentives, corporate taxation and ef…ciency in the allocation of capital -a comment
Economic Journal , volume 89 , p. 663 - 65 Posted: 1979
Crossref
R W Boadway , N Bruce
Depreciation and interest deductions and the e¤ect of the corporation income tax on investment
Journal of Public Economics , volume 11 , p. 93 - 105 Posted: 1979
Crossref
S Bond , L Channells
Corporate Income Taxes and Investment: A Comparative Study Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,544
RANK
317,158
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Effective Tax Rates in Macroeconomics: Cross-Country Estimates of Tax Rates on Factor Incomes and Consumption

By Enrique G. Mendoza, Assaf Razin, ...

Do Countries Compete Over Corporate Tax Rates?

By Michael P. Devereux, Ben Lockwood, ...

The Taxation of Income from Capital: A Comparative Study of the U.S., U.K., Sweden, and West Germany--The Theoretical Framework--

By Mervyn King and Don Fullerton

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies