Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency, Liquidity, and Valuation: International Evidence on When Transparency Matters Most

Journal of Accounting Research 50, No. 3 (2012): 729-774

69 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2009 Last revised: 25 Aug 2016

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Karl V. Lins

University of Utah - Department of Finance

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 15, 2011

Abstract

We examine the relation between firm-level transparency, stock market liquidity, and valuation across a variety of international settings. We document lower transaction costs and greater liquidity (as measured by lower bid-ask spreads and fewer zero-return days) for firms with greater transparency (as measured by less evidence of earnings management, better accounting standards, higher quality auditors, more analyst following and more accurate analyst forecasts). The relation between transparency and liquidity is more pronounced in periods of high volatility, when investor protection, disclosure requirements, and media penetration are poor, and when ownership is more concentrated, suggesting that firm-level transparency matters more when overall investor uncertainty is greater. Increased liquidity is associated with lower implied cost of capital and with higher valuation as measured by Tobin’s Q. Finally, a mediation analysis suggests that liquidity is a significant channel through which transparency affects firm valuation and equity cost of capital.

Keywords: transparency, liquidity, valuation, cost of capital

JEL Classification: G15, G24, G32, M41, M43, M44, K22

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Mark H. and Lins, Karl V. and Maffett, Mark G., Transparency, Liquidity, and Valuation: International Evidence on When Transparency Matters Most (December 15, 2011). Journal of Accounting Research 50, No. 3 (2012): 729-774, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1323514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
L Hail , C Leuz
International Differences in the Cost of Equity Capital: Do Legal Institutions and Securities Regulation Matter?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , p. 485 - 531 Posted: 2006
Crossref
L Hail , C Leuz
Cost of Capital Effects and Changes in Growth Expectations around U.S. Cross-Listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 93 , p. 428 - 454 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Hammersley
Pattern Identification and Industry-Specialist Auditors
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 309 - 336 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P ; A Healy , K Hutton; , Palepu
Stock Performance and Intermediation Changes Surrounding Sustained Increases in Disclosure
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , p. 485 - 520 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,654
RANK
13,338
72 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies