Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Management and Prevention for Financial Instruments Based International Standards of Financial Reporting IAS 32 and IAS 39

Posted: 8 Jan 2009

Veronica Grosu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ionel Bostan

Stefan cel Mare University

Date Written: January 8, 2009

Abstract

The objectives and policies of economic entities to control financial risks, including policy related to the coverage for each category of significant transactions provided, is the use of hedge accounting. With regard to financial instruments to determine the level of detail of information to provide on this is an opportunity for the exercise of judgments which take into account the relative importance of these instruments. In this article, the authors have proposed to highlight and to describe groups of financial instruments in categories adapted to the nature of the information provided, necessary to the company's management, taking into account factors such as characteristics of the instruments. The fact that they are counted or not. As well as the assessment required by the International Standards of Financial Reporting IAS 32 - Financial Instruments: information presented and presentation and IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: recognition and evaluation.

Keywords: financial instruments, international financial reporting standards, international, information asymmetry, management risk, IAS 32, IAS 39

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G13

Suggested Citation:

Grosu, Veronica and Bostan, Ionel, Risk Management and Prevention for Financial Instruments Based International Standards of Financial Reporting IAS 32 and IAS 39 (January 8, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1324848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1324848
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,900
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies