Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains Taxes, Pricing Spreads, and Arbitrage: Evidence from Cross-Listed Firms in the U.S.

Accounting Review, Vol. 84, No. 5, pp. 1321-1361, 2009

Posted: 12 Jan 2009 Last revised: 21 Sep 2009

Jennifer Blouin

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Michelle Yetman

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 8, 2009

Abstract

We examine how shareholder-level taxes affect the contemporaneous pricing of foreign firms' U.S. cross-listed and underlying home-country securities surrounding the 1997 reduction in U.S. capital gains tax rates. Consistent with tax capitalization, we find that the performance of cross-listed shares is negatively related to dividend yield, suggesting an abnormal price increase for shares with greater anticipated taxable capital gains. Due to barriers to cross-border arbitrage, underlying home-country securities, on average, do not react during the event, creating a temporary tax-induced pricing spread. When costs of arbitrage are low, the pricing disparity quickly dissipates and home-country shares closely mirror the pricing of their cross-listed counterparts. In further tests, we are unable to document lock-in behavior, which predicates a decrease in prices attributable to a surge in volume for shares with greater accrued taxable capital gains. Overall, our findings suggest that an exogenous shock to the U.S. tax regime reverberates in international asset prices, thereby affecting foreign firms' costs of capital.

Keywords: Tax Capitalization, Personal Taxes, American Depositary Receipts, Arbitrage, Cost of Capital, International Asset Pricing

JEL Classification: H24, G12, G35, G14, G15

Suggested Citation:

Blouin, Jennifer and Hail, Luzi and Yetman, Michelle, Capital Gains Taxes, Pricing Spreads, and Arbitrage: Evidence from Cross-Listed Firms in the U.S. (January 8, 2009). Accounting Review, Vol. 84, No. 5, pp. 1321-1361, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1324933
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,554
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies