Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure and Its Impact on Share Prices: Evidence from the UK Biotechnology Sector

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 27, No. 3, 2008

37 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2009 Last revised: 10 Jan 2009

Elisabeth Dedman

Edge Hill University Business School

Steve Lin

University of Memphis

Arun J. Prakash

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chun-Hao Chang

Florida International University (FIU)

Date Written: January 7, 2009

Abstract

In the UK, SSAP 13 requires that firms immediately expense most of their R&D expenditures. The reported earnings of high-R&D expenditure firms are therefore likely to convey less value-relevant information to investors than those of less research-intensive firms. Using a sample of firms from the high-R&D UK biotechnology/pharmaceutical sector, we find that earnings announcements have a much lower price impact than drug development announcements. We also find that there are significantly more 'good news' voluntary announcements than 'bad news' announcements. Furthermore, our findings indicate that these firms are more likely to announce late than early stage developments, and that the pattern of disclosures, and the market's reaction to them, varies between larger, dominant firms and their smaller counterparts.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, firm strategy, market reaction

JEL Classification: G30, I10, L10, M44

Suggested Citation:

Dedman, Elisabeth and Lin, Steve and Prakash, Arun J. and Chang, Chun-Hao, Voluntary Disclosure and Its Impact on Share Prices: Evidence from the UK Biotechnology Sector (January 7, 2009). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 27, No. 3, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1324134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
S Tasker
Bridging the information gap: quarterly conference calls as a medium for voluntary disclosure
Journal of Financial Statement Analysis , volume 4 , p. 6 - 14 Posted: 1998
M Welker
Disclosure policy, information asymmetry and liquidity in equity markets
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 11 , p. 801 - 828 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
394
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,884
RANK
171,584
3 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies