Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Incentives, Top Management Turnover and Accounting Information: Evidence from China's Soes

49 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2009

Fang Hu

Griffith University - The Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Date Written: January 7, 2009

Abstract

This paper investigates control mechanism and accounting information used for control mechanism, shaped by government incentives for business. Using a sample of China's state-owned enterprises (SOEs) from 2001 to 2005, it finds that the likelihood of top management turnover in China's SOEs, which is an important aspect of corporate control mechanism, is inversely associated with two types of accounting information of firm performance, firm-specific accounting performance and relative accounting performance, which is induced by the interests of Chinese government for the economic performance and political competition. Further, this paper finds that relative accounting performance, especially regional relative accounting performance, receives more weight in turnover decisions if a SOE is a local monopolistic firm or in local monopoly, because relative performance measure could offer a relatively simple benchmark for local government to assess manager's quality and provide stronger incentive scheme in China's political environment. By seeking deeper understanding into government incentives, the findings imply that induced by government incentives, effective corporate governance which is based on distinguished characteristics of accounting information exists in an economy highly involved by government.

Keywords: Management Turnover, Accounting Measures, Government Incentives, China's SOEs, Local Monopoly

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Fang, Government Incentives, Top Management Turnover and Accounting Information: Evidence from China's Soes (January 7, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1324077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1324077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Rajesh K Aggarwal , Andrew A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 54 , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Antle , A Smith
An empirical investigation of the relative performance evaluation of corporate executives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
Crossref
R D Banker , S M Datar
Sensitivity, precision, and linear aggregation of signals for performance evaluation
Journal of Journal Research , volume 27 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Ray Ball , S P Kothari , Ashok Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
338
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,062
RANK
203,526
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Impact of CEO Turnover on Firm Volatility

By Matthew J. Clayton, Jay C. Hartzell, ...

The Impact of CEO Turnover on Equity Volatility

By Joshua V. Rosenberg, Matthew J. Clayton, ...

The Impact of CEO Turnover on Equity Volatility

By Matthew J. Clayton, Jay C. Hartzel, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies