Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Competition Among Eastern and Western European Countries: With Whom Do Countries Compete?

Economic Systems, Vol. 32, No. 4, 2008

Posted: 8 Jan 2009

Aurélie Cassette

Lille Economie & Management (LEM) UMR 9221

Sonia Paty

University of Angers - Institute of Economic Theory and Analysis (GATE)

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the existence of strategic interactions between the former EU15 countries and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe regarding corporate taxes. We estimate an empirical model of strategic interactions among 27 European countries for the period 1995-2005, using GMM. Our results confirm the existence of tax interdependence within Western Europe but show that strategic interactions among Eastern European countries are less common. Finally, we show that there are some interactions related to taxes between these two regions of Europe.

Keywords: Tax competition, Strategic interactions, Corporate tax, Panel data, EU27

JEL Classification: H2, H3, C3

Suggested Citation:

Cassette, Aurélie and Paty, Sonia, Tax Competition Among Eastern and Western European Countries: With Whom Do Countries Compete? (2008). Economic Systems, Vol. 32, No. 4, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1324593
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,337
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies