Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Asset Impairments: Evidence from the Adoption Choice of SFAS No. 35 in Taiwan

28 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2009

Wei-Heng Lin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joseph C. S. Hsu

Independent Scholar

Date Written: January 7, 2008

Abstract

Taiwan's Financial Accounting Standards Committee issued SFAS No. 35, "Accounting for the Impairment of Assets," in July 2004. This accounting standard was effective for financial year ending after December 31, 2005, with early adoption encouraged. The primary objective of this paper is to contrast the earnings management incentives and corporate governance mechanisms of impaired asset write-down firms that adopt the standard in 2004 (early adopters) and 2005 (late adopters). Empirical results reveal that early (late) adopters are associated with lower (higher) earnings management incentives and better (worse) corporate governance mechanisms. These results imply that early adopters use reporting flexibility to reveal their private information about the true value of the firm; alternatively, late adopters use this discretion to opportunistically distort the underlying economics of the firm. We argue that corporate governance limits earnings management on the impaired asset write-downs.

Keywords: Impairments, Corporate governance, Earnings management, Ownership.

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Wei-Heng and Hsu, Joseph C. S., Corporate Governance and Asset Impairments: Evidence from the Adoption Choice of SFAS No. 35 in Taiwan (January 7, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325068 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1325068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
M Alciatore , C Dee , P Easton , N Spear
Asset write-downs: A decade of research
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 17 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
E Amir , A Ziv
Economic consequences of alternative adoption rules of new accounting standards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 543 - 568 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Berle , G Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
A Christie , J Zimmerman
Efficient and opportunistic choices of accounting procedures: Corporate control contests
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , p. 539 - 566 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,153
RANK
229,292
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies