Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Controlling Shareholders' Opportunism: The Case of Share Repurchase and Cash Dividends

36 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2009

Hyo Jin Kim

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hoje Jo

Santa Clara University

Soon Suk Yoon

Chonnam National University - Department of Economics

Date Written: January 11, 2009

Abstract

This study examines how share repurchase and dividend policies are influenced by controlling shareholders in an emerging market. Share repurchase can be utilized opportunistically by controlling shareholders, particularly when they exercise voting rights in excess of cash-flow rights. The evidence of Korean firms shows that firms with a big wedge between the voting rights and cash-flow rights repurchase more shares, while firms with a small wedge distribute more cash dividends. In addition, we find that cash flows are significantly lower for firms with share-repurchase only than for those with neither share repurchase nor dividends. Overall, our results indicate that controlling shareholders use share repurchase as a temporary opportunism.

Keywords: Controlling shareholders, share repurchases, dividends, wedge, cash-flow rights, voting rights

JEL Classification: G32, G35, G34, D82, G15

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Hyo Jin and Jo, Hoje and Yoon, Soon Suk, Controlling Shareholders' Opportunism: The Case of Share Repurchase and Cash Dividends (January 11, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1325949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A Agrawal , N Jayaraman
The Dividend Policies of All-Equity Firms: a Direct Test of the Free Cash Flow Theory
Managerial Decision Economics , volume 15 , p. 139 - 148 Posted: 1994
Crossref
F Allen , A Bernardo , I Welch
A Theory of Dividends Based on Tax Clienteles
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
Crossref
F Allen , R Michaely
Posted: 2002
R Ambarish , K John , J Williams
Efficient Signaling with Dividends and Investments
Journal of Finance , volume 42 , p. 321 - 344 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,604
RANK
206,880
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?

By Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French

Dividends, Share Repurchases, and the Substitution Hypothesis

By Gustavo Grullon and Roni Michaely

Payout Policy in the 21st Century

By Alon Brav, John R. Graham, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies