Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor-Client Interdependence and Audit Quality: Partner-Level Evidence

CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper

37 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2009

Xijia Su

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 10, 2009

Abstract

In this study, we argue that an increased economic bonding may develop between the auditor and the clients when an auditor will switch to a new audit firm because the turnover auditor's better payoff expected from switching to the new firm (e.g., promotion, larger share of firm profits, more perks, more authority and peer respect) are often enhanced by the number of clients he can bring to the new firm. The auditor and the client can use audit quality as a bargaining tool to divide the incremental payoff generated from the joint auditor-client switch. We thus hypothesize that the turnover partners treat follower clients more favorably (by making less downward audit adjustments to pre-audit earnings or allowing greater discretionary accruals) than they treat other clients around the joint auditor-client turnover. Using the data in China where engagement-specific audit partner information is available, we find evidence supporting our hypothesis under the condition that both the former engagement and review auditors later switch to the same successor audit firm to perform the audits for the follower clients. Our partner-level evidence is consistent with the widespread concern that audit quality is lower when there is a greater level of auditor-client bonding.

Keywords: auditor-client bonding, audit quality, client following behavior, bargaining

Suggested Citation:

Su, Xijia, Auditor-Client Interdependence and Audit Quality: Partner-Level Evidence (January 10, 2009). CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325647 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1325647
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
T Bell , W R Knechel
Empirical analyses of Errors discovered in audits of property and casualty insurers
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 100 Posted: 1994
J Blouin , B Grein , B Roundtree
An analysis of forced auditor change: The case of former Arthur Andersen clients
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 3 , p. 621 - 650 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M T Bradshaw , S A Richardson , R G Sloan
Do analysts and auditors use information in accruals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 74 Posted: 2001
Crossref
P Carey , R Simnett
Audit partner tenure and audit quality
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 653 - 676 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Allen D. Blay , Matthew Notbohm , Caren Schelleman , Adrian Valencia
Audit Quality Effects of an Individual Audit Engagement Partner Signature Mandate
International Journal of Auditing , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 172 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
472
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,133
RANK
139,038
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Audit Quality and Executive Officers' Affiliations with Cpa Firms

By Clive S. Lennox

Audit Fees and Nonaudit Fees in the Governmental Sector: A Self-Selection Analysis

By Randal J. Elder, Susan C. Kattelus, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies