Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balance Sheet - Expression of Financial Condition and Communication at International Level

9 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2009

Dorel Mates

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Elena Hlaciuc

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Veronica Grosu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Marian Socoliuc

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Eugenia Iancu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chirita Irina

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 9, 2009

Abstract

The balance sheet represents the main source of economic-financial information, a communication instrument used by economic entities in order to communicate with the outer-sphere, a document that allows us to see the entity's functioning capacity, in a dynamic balanced condition. The balance sheet's international matching process is displayed through a convergence towards international accounting standards, and IAS/IFRS financial reporting issued by IASB. In such optics, the balance sheet conveys a high informational potentiality, the main acquaintanceship of patrimonial reality, with a high communicational opening, but also an important way to notify the shown valuing. A right economic-financial communication, which concedes the credibility of papered data, and yielding the possibility of confronting those, a higher transparency of the balance sheet, next to an archer conciseness of economical strategy, has the role of improving the entity's relations with supply institutions, and to increase its own value. The IAS/IFRS balance sheet can improve the entity's image, and can reproduce the public comprehensible data at international standards.

Keywords: international accounting standards, financial statements, earning quality,economic-financial communication

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Mates, Dorel and Hlaciuc, Elena and Grosu, Veronica and Socoliuc, Marian and Iancu, Eugenia and Irina, Chirita, Balance Sheet - Expression of Financial Condition and Communication at International Level (January 9, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1325384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
R Bushman
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill -Accounting Area
JAE Rochster Conference Posted: 2000-04
C Grenier
Systèmes d'information et comptabilité, ECCA Posted: 1998
Harley E Ryan , Jr Emery , A Trahan
Corporate Financial Control Mechanisms and Firm Performance: The Case of Value-Based Management Systems
Contabilitatea financiară a întreprinderii între normalizare şi armonizare , volume 34 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Mateş Dorel
Normalizarea contabilităţii şi fiscalitatea întreprinderii Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,287
RANK
286,507
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Do Managers Perform Better Under Eva Bonus Schemes?

By Stephen S. Riceman, Steven F. Cahan, ...

Eva and the Controllability-Congruence Trade-Off: An Empirical Investigation

By Jean-pierre Ponssard and Francois Larmande

Eva Compensation Schemes and Controllability Issues: An Empirical Investigation

By Jean Pierre Ponssard and Francois Larmande

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies