Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Standardization of Financial Plans Within the EU Integration

10 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2009

Dorel Mates

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Veronica Grosu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 10, 2009

Abstract

The global trends in the field of accountancy are focusing on creating a unitary system of international accounting standards, which every country can assimilate, by progressively setting aside the national accounting standards. Although different from one country to another, the accounting and tax standardization and regulation instruments include elements that build together the reference system for planning and presenting the financial plans.

Keywords: accounting standardization, UE integration, financial statemens, IAS/IFRS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Mates, Dorel and Grosu, Veronica, Standardization of Financial Plans Within the EU Integration (January 10, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1325658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
of the international economic relationships, within the globalization process and under the impulse of the international capital traffic
D A Alexander
European True an fair view
The European Accouting Review Posted: 1993
Crossref
G Bailey , K Wild
International Accounting Standards a guide to preparing accounts
ABC Professional Information Posted: 2000
Barbara Wheling -The crisis of fordism and the international harmonization of accounting standards Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
568,179
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies