Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Characteristics and Earnings Management of Different Types of Security Issuers

31 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2009

Hyo Jin Kim

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Soon Suk Yoon

Chonnam National University - Department of Economics

Date Written: January 11, 2009

Abstract

We examined what factors discriminate different types of security issuers and whether security issuers engage in different degrees of earnings management using Korean listed firms that issued securities during the period of 2000-2007. We find that plain bond issuers are different from dilutive security issuers but are close to preferred stock issuers. We also find that the issuers of common stocks and dilutive securities share some common characteristics. We document that current and past profitability, size and operating cash flows act as significant factors which discriminate different types of security issuers. Finally, the degree of earnings management differs among different types of security issuers. As compared to common stock issuers, dilutive security issuers tend to have significantly lower accruals and the issuers of plain bonds and preferred stocks tend to have significantly higher accruals. The amount of capital raised per issue has a positive impact on accruals.

Keywords: security issuers, firm characteristics, earnings management, accruals

JEL Classification: M41, M43, G32

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Hyo Jin and Yoon, Soon Suk, Firm Characteristics and Earnings Management of Different Types of Security Issuers (January 11, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1325952 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1325952
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
J A Aharony , C Lin , M P Loeb
Initial Public Offerings, Accounting Choices, and Earnings Management
Contemporary Accounting Research (Fall 1993) , p. 61 - 81
Crossref
P Dechow , R Sloan , A Sweeny
Detecting Earnings Management
The Accounting Review , p. 193 - 225 Posted: 1995-04
J M Friedlan
Accounting Choices of Issuers of Initial Public Offerings
Contemporary Accounting Research , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Discussion Paper: Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Equity
IASB Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,642
RANK
187,977
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies