Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Audit Firm Networks and Their Reputation Risk

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance 29(3): 203-237, 2014

53 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2009 Last revised: 26 Jun 2016

Yoshie Saito

City University of New York (CUNY) - Koppelman School of Business

Fumiko Takeda

Keio University

Date Written: January 25, 2014

Abstract

The globalization of audit markets provides an opportunity for the U.S. Big 4 auditors to establish international expertise through global networks, but it also exposes them to reputation risk arising from the acts of their local partners. We analyze the audit failure of ChuoAoyama, one of the Japanese Big 4 audit firms, and find that its credibility impairment reduced security prices of not only the clients of PwC, their U.S. affiliate, but also the American clients of all other Big 4 auditors affiliated with the Japanese Big 4. Because the quality of the U.S. audit firms is perceived as superior to that of auditors in other countries, we also analyze the premiums arising from the affiliation with the U.S.-led global audit firm networks. We compare the effect of Andersen’s audit failure with ChuoAoyama’s in Japanese capital markets, and find that the magnitude of negative market reactions is larger for Andersen’s failure than for ChuoAoyama’s. Together, these results suggest that global audit firm networks have created a network-wide reputation for their services that is susceptible not only to audit failures of the U.S. Big 4, but also to those of non-U.S. affiliates, and that there is a quality premium for the U.S. Big 4 in Japanese markets. Our results provide a rational explanation for PwC’s aggressive efforts to temper the negative impact of ChuoAoyama’s failure on their reputation.

Keywords: international spillovers, event study, assurance value, insurance value

JEL Classification: G14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Saito, Yoshie and Takeda, Fumiko, Global Audit Firm Networks and Their Reputation Risk (January 25, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance 29(3): 203-237, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1326005 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1326005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Accountingweb
Japan's Oversight Board Faults Operations, Control at Big Four Firms Posted: 2006
C L Ahmadjian , G E Robbins
A clash of capitalisms: foreign shareholders and corporate restructuring in 1990s Japan
American Sociological Review , volume 70 , p. 451 - 471 Posted: 2005-06
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Antle
Auditor independence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,943
RANK
187,977
3 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Who Cares About Auditor Reputation?

By Jan Barton

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies