Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Earnings to Meet Critical Thresholds and the Role of Corporate Governance: A Case Study of China

CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper

47 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2009

Liona Lai

York University

Date Written: January 11, 2009

Abstract

This study investigates the behaviors of Chinese firms in using non-operating below-the-line items to manage earnings to meet rights issuance threshold and to avoid loss or de-listing, and whether certain corporate governance mechanisms are related to such earnings management behaviors. The results of the empirical analyzes based on a sample of 1522 firm-year observations for the period 2000-2001 find that the likelihood of managing earnings to meet rights issuance threshold and to avoid loss or de-listing is negatively related to the adoption of independent directors in the board of directors and to the percentage shareholdings of the largest shareholder and positively related to the percentage share of state ownership. Further investigation shows that there is a non-linear relationship between such earnings management behaviors and the percentage of independent directors in the board. There is no evidence, however, that percentage shareholdings of CEO, the duality of CEO and top management position, or the quality of external auditor is related to such earnings management measure.

Keywords: earnings management, earnings thresholds, rights issuance, loss avoidance, corporate governance, China

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Liona, Managing Earnings to Meet Critical Thresholds and the Role of Corporate Governance: A Case Study of China (January 11, 2009). CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1326191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1326191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
J Aharony , C W J Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C Bai , Q Liu , J Lu , F M Song , J Zhang
Corporate governance and protection of the rights of minority shareholders in China Posted: 2002
M Beasley
An empirical Analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996-10
Crossref
J Bedard , S Chtourou , L Courteau
The effect of audit committee expertise, independence, and activity on aggressive earnings management
Audting: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 13 - 35 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,042
RANK
328,705
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies