Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Internal Processes in the Sustainability Performance and Disclosure Relationship

CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper

46 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2009

Sandy Hershcovis

University of Manitoba

Irene M. Herremans

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Hussein A. Warsame

University of Calgary

Date Written: January 11, 2009

Abstract

The present study investigates the role of internal processes and specific performance measures (flaring and CO2 emissions) in corporate sustainability reporting in the Canadian petroleum industry. It also contributes to the debate between socio-political and economic perspectives for explaining the level of sustainability reporting. By limiting our study to just one industry, the Canadian oil and gas industry, we are able to eliminate potentially confounding variables that have been present in other cross-sectional studies. We introduce Environmental Management System (process), which we argue is a proxy for strategy, into the equation. We also emphasize the contextual importance of institutional investors and consumer presence to sustainability reporting. We find that these variables offer considerable explanatory power to our equation. The behavior of the economic and sustainability performance variables is a mix of the predictions of various socio-political and economic theories. As a result, we call for more firm level contextual research before closing the debate among researchers subscribing to alternative perspectives of theorizing.

JEL Classification: M41, M45, Q20, Q30

Suggested Citation:

Hershcovis, M. Sandy and Herremans, Irene M. and Warsame, Hussein A., The Role of Internal Processes in the Sustainability Performance and Disclosure Relationship (January 11, 2009). CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1326088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1326088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting--performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C A Adams , C Larrinago-González
Engaging with organisations in pursuit of improved sustainability accounting and performance
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 355 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , I I Hughes , K E
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
W R Q Anton , G Deltas , M Khanna
Incentives for environmental self-regulation and implications for environmental performance
Journal of Environmental Economics and Management , volume 48 , p. 632 - 654 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,385
RANK
279,629
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies