Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Actuaries and Accountants: The Tower of Babel

CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper

41 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2009

Cameron K.J. Morrill

University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Janet B. Morrill

University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Kevin Shand

University of Manitoba

Date Written: January 12, 2009

Abstract

Defined benefit (DB) pension accounting standards have changed substantially over the past thirty years and still vary substantially across countries today. In spite of the inter-jurisdictional differences, many observers criticize pension accounting standards for being confusing and even misleading. Our paper considers the difficulties that arise from differences between the legislative requirements regarding funding and administration of DB pension plans and the accounting requirements regarding financial statement reporting of those plans.

Specifically, we investigate the effects of: (1) accounting treatment vs. funding of actuarial gains and losses and (2) differences between the accounting and actuarial discount rates that are applied to the pension projected benefit obligation (PBO) and service cost. To analyze these issues, we simulate economic and accounting outcomes for a stable hypothetical DB pension plan over a twenty-year period. We demonstrate that current GAAP for pension plans is problematic in that, in many circumstances: (1) pension expense diverges significantly from funding cash flows; (2) pension deficits reported in the financial statements grow over time even when the pension plan is fully funded; and (3) the divergence between GAAP-reported and actuarially determined pension results is dependent, at least in part, on the allocation of pension plan assets between debt and equity investments.

Keywords: Pension accounting, simulation, pension discount rate

JEL Classification: G23, M41, M44, M47, J26

Suggested Citation:

Morrill, Cameron K.J. and Morrill, Janet B. and Shand, Kevin, Actuaries and Accountants: The Tower of Babel (January 12, 2009). CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1326656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1326656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
B Barrett , J Pfenenger , I I
Proper Cash-Flow Discounting for Pension Fund Liabilities
Financial Analysts Journal , p. 68 - 70 Posted: 1989-03
Crossref
W H Beaver
What Should Be the FASB's Objectives?
Journal of Accountancy , p. 49 - 56 Posted: 1973-08
A I Blankley , E P Swanson
A Longitudinal Study of SFAS 87 Pension Rate Assumptions
Accounting Horizons , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1995
R J Bloomfield
The "Incomplete Revelation Hypothesis" and Financial Reporting
Accounting Horizons , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 233 - 244 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,749
RANK
425,064
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Does Recognition Versus Disclosure Matter? Evidence from Value-Relevance of Banks' Recognized and Disclosed Derivative Financial Instruments

By Anwer S. Ahmed, Emre Kilic, ...

Recognition and Disclosure Reliability: Evidence from SFAS No. 106

By Paquita Y. Davis-friday, Chao-shin Liu, ...

Efficient Contracting and the Choice of Accounting Method in the Oil and Gas Industry

By David Malmquist

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies