Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adaptability of Fair Value Accounting in China: Assessment of an Emerging Economy Converging with IFRS

CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper

42 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2009

Songlan (Stella) Peng

York University

Kathryn Bewley

Ryerson University - Ted Rogers School of Management

Date Written: January 11, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines fair value accounting (FVA) adoption and implementation, within the historical and social-economic context of an emerging economy, China. As FVA is a major component of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the findings provide insights on global challenges to international accounting convergence. The study is motivated by recent concerns about the adaptability to FVA in various countries, a question that has not been adequately examined in the literature. We analyse archival data on China's practices in adopting and implementing FVA to provide a critical perspective on whether the divergence in FVA between local standards and IFRS is justified and whether it may be bridged in the near future. The findings show (1) a roller-coaster trajectory going from complete ignorance, to an abortive introduction, to abrupt prohibition, and finally to aggressive re-introduction within a short period. China's practices in adopting and implementing FVA in IFRS appears to be driven by political and economic conditions, not by the readiness of the capital market or of other fundamental infrastructure. (2) China has extensively adopted FVA derived from IFRS but substantial divergence persists, posing a challenge to IASB's goal of uniform accounting. (3) China's implementation of FVA has improved only slightly since the first failed attempt at fair value reform, calling into question the effectiveness of future implementation efforts. Further analysis of the implementation challenges observed in China provides insights into the likelihood that uniform global accounting standards will come to be.

Keywords: Fair value, China, accounting standards, accounting convergence, emerging economy, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, F36, N45

Suggested Citation:

Peng, Songlan and Bewley, Kathryn, Adaptability of Fair Value Accounting in China: Assessment of an Emerging Economy Converging with IFRS (January 11, 2009). CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1326004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1326004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
SFAS No. 123 stock-based employee compensation and equity market values
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Accounting Observer
China on board the IASB train? Posted: 2005
D M Anderson
Taking stock in China: Company disclosure and information in China's stock markets
Georgetown Law Journal , volume 88 , p. 1919 - 1952 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,829
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,874
RANK
21,410
4 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance, Financing Pattern and Cost of Capital: Evidence from New Zealand Companies

By Hardjo Koerniadi and Alireza Tourani-rad

Corporate Governance, Financing Patterns and the Cost of Capital: Evidence from New Zealand Companies

By Hardjo Koerniadi and Alireza Tourani-rad

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies