Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Pricing of Intellectual Capital in the IT Industry

42 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2009

Hung-Chao Yu

National Chengchi University

Wen-Yin Wang

National Chengchi University

Chingfu Chang

National Chengchi University

Date Written: January 14, 2009

Abstract

This study adopts Ohlson's (1995) valuation model and Dechow et al.'s (1999) framework to examine the value relevance of intellectual capital (IC) disclosed by Taiwan's information technology (IT) companies. Following prior studies, we focus on four IC components: human, innovation, process, and relation. Several important findings are documented. First, Taiwan's IT companies are more likely to focus on human and process capital than on innovation and relation capital. Second, there is a positive association between IT companies' abnormal accounting rates of return and the persistence of abnormal earnings. A possible reason underlying this result is that these companies have substantial increase in sales over years. Third, IC disclosure is value relevant to IT companies' business valuation. More importantly, IC captures a large portion of the unexpected earnings. Finally, the use of a constant discount rate may be inappropriate in estimating the Ohlson model because it generates biased abnormal earnings that masks or dilutes the value relevance of IC during the business valuation process. Management and policy implications are discussed.

Keywords: Information technology, Intellectual capital, Human capital, Innovation capital, Process capital, Relation capital, Rate of return on equity

JEL Classification: G14, L63, M41, M45, M47

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Hung-Chao and Wang, Wen-Yin and Chang, Chingfu, The Pricing of Intellectual Capital in the IT Industry (January 14, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1327668 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1327668
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E F Fama , K R French
Permanent and temporary components of stock prices
Journal of Political Economy , volume 96 , p. 246 - 273 Posted: 1988-04
Crossref
S M Fazzari , R G Hubbard , B C Peterson
Financing constraints and corporate investment
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , volume 1988 , issue 1 , p. 141 - 206 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Improving business reporting: Insights into enhancing voluntary disclosures. Steering Committee Business, Reporting Research Project
Financial Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2001
P Flöstrand
The sell side-observations on intellectual capital indicators
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 457 - 473 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
694
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,385
RANK
85,609
3 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies