Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Quantitative Information Withholding in Annual Reports

Posted: 14 Jan 2009 Last revised: 10 Mar 2010

Florence Depoers

Institut d'Administration des Entreprises de Lyon (IAE Lyon)

Thomas Jeanjean

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control; ESSEC Business School

Date Written: Mach 8, 2010

Abstract

In recent years, the determinants of voluntary disclosure have been explored in an extensive body of empirical research. One major limitation of those studies is that none has tried to find out whether voluntary disclosures were occasional or continuous over time. Yet this point is particularly important, as the voluntary disclosure mechanism can only be fully effective if the manager consistently reports the same items. This paper examines the factors associated with the decision to stop disclosing an item of information previously published voluntarily (henceforth “information withholding” or IW). To measure information withholding, we code 178 annual reports of French firms for three consecutive years. Although disclosure scores are relatively stable over time, we find that this does not mean there is no change in voluntary disclosure across the years. We document that IW is a widespread practice: on average, one voluntary item out of seven disclosed in a given year is withheld the following year. We show that information withholding is mainly related to the firm’s competition environment, ownership diffusion, board independence and the existence of a dual leadership structure (separate CEO and chairman).

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Information Withholding, Proprietary Costs

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Depoers, Florence and Jeanjean, Thomas and Jeanjean, Thomas, Determinants of Quantitative Information Withholding in Annual Reports (Mach 8, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1327923
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,588
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies