Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Deposit Insurance Improve Financial Intermediation? Evidence from the Russian Experiment

Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 35, No. 2, pp. 388-402, 2010

48 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2009 Last revised: 1 Mar 2011

Lucy Chernykh

Clemson University

Rebel A. Cole

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: August 14, 2010

Abstract

This study examines how the introduction of deposit insurance affects depositors and banks, using the deposit-insurance scheme introduced into the Russian banking system as a natural experiment. The fundamental research question is whether the introduction of deposit insurance leads to a more effective banking system as evidenced by increased deposit-taking and decreased reliance upon State-owned banks as custodians of retail deposits. We find that banks entering the new deposit-insurance system increased both their level of retail deposits and their ratios of retail deposits to total assets relative to banks that did not enter the new deposit insurance system. These results hold up in a multivariate panel-data analysis that controls for bank- and time-random effects. The longer a bank had been entered into the deposit insurance system, the greater was its level of deposits and its ratio of deposits to assets. Moreover, this effect was stronger for regional banks and for smaller banks. We also find that implementation of the new deposit-insurance system had the effect of “leveling the playing field” between State-owned banks and privately owned banks. Finally, we find strong evidence of moral hazard following implementation of deposit insurance in the form of increased bank risk-taking. Financial risk and, to a lesser degree, operating risk increased following implementation.

Keywords: Bank, Deposit Insurance, Financial Intermediation, Moral Hazard, Russia, State-Owned Bank

JEL Classification: E53, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Chernykh, Lucy and Cole, Rebel A., Does Deposit Insurance Improve Financial Intermediation? Evidence from the Russian Experiment (August 14, 2010). Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 35, No. 2, pp. 388-402, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1328444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
21 Citations
Lucy Chernykh , Sergey Mityakov
Behavior of Corporate Depositors during a Bank Panic
Management Science · 65 Pages · Posted: 20 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 14 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 202
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alexei Karas , William Pyle , Koen J. L. Schoors
Deposit Insurance, Market Discipline and Bank Risk
BOFIT Discussion Paper No. 10/2019 · 28 Pages · Posted: 5 Jul 2019 · Last revised: 18 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 126
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Diego Puente Moncayo
Dualism of Government Guarantees: Evidence from the 2005 FDI Reform Act
43 Pages · Posted: 7 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 45
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Matteo Gatti , Tommaso Oliviero
Deposit Insurance and Banks’ Deposit Rates: Evidence from the 2009 EU Policy Change
University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management and Statistics Working Paper No. 419 · 38 Pages · Posted: 13 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 105
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,030
RANK
163,472
21 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Regulation and Supervision of Banks Around the World: A New Database

By James R. Barth, Gerard Caprio, ...

Does Deposit Insurance Increase Banking System Stability?

By Asli Demirgüç-kunt and Enrica Detragiache

Does Deposit Insurance Increase Banking System Stability? An Empirical Investigation

By Asli Demirgüç-kunt and Enrica Detragiache

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies