Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transition to IFRS in Greece: Financial Statement Effects and Auditor Size

Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 25, No. 8, 2010

Posted: 19 Jan 2009 Last revised: 7 Nov 2010

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Lisa Evans

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 5, 2010

Abstract

Purpose: We explore the impact of the transition to IFRS on Greek listed companies’ financial statements with a focus on net profit, shareholders’ equity, gearing and liquidity. We also examine any differences in the impact across the sub-samples of companies with ‘Big 4’ and non-‘Big 4’ auditors.

Design/methodology/approach: In line with recent literature, we employ Gray’s comparability index. Our sample consists of 238 Greek companies, representing 75% of the companies listed on the Athens Stock Exchange at the end of March 2006.

Findings: Implementation of IFRS had a significant impact on financial position and reported performance as well as on gearing and liquidity ratios. On average, impact on shareholders’ equity and net income was positive while impact on gearing and liquidity was negative. Only companies with non-‘Big 4’ auditors faced significant impact on net profit and liquidity. They also faced a significantly greater impact on gearing than companies with ‘Big 4’ auditors. A large number of companies with material negative changes is identified, suggesting that transition to IFRS and the fair value option does not necessarily result in higher shareholders’ equity figures. We also find that many companies provided inadequate transitional disclosures. This is significantly related to auditor size.

Practical implications: Our findings suggest that reporting quality has improved under the new accounting regime, especially for companies with non-‘Big 4’ auditors. Originality/value: Prior literature indicates that the impact revealed in companies’ reconciliation statements can have significant effects on users’ decision making. On that basis, our study can stimulate future research and is relevant to standard setters and regulators.

Keywords: IFRS implementation, comparability index, creative accounting, auditor size, Greece

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M45, M47, M49, G29

Suggested Citation:

Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Evans, Lisa, Transition to IFRS in Greece: Financial Statement Effects and Auditor Size (June 5, 2010). Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 25, No. 8, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1329150
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,609
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies