Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Case Study Over the Employee's Benefits (IAS 19) and Pension Plan Accounting (IAS 26) in Romania

Posted: 24 Jan 2009 Last revised: 24 Jan 2009

Maria Moraru

West University of Timisoara

Gabriela Blidisel Rodica

West University of Timisoara

Dan Aurelian Stirbu

West University of Timisoara - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 22, 2008

Abstract

The study indicates in its introduction IAS 19's and IAS 26's objectives continued by a detailed presentation of the employee's benefits and pension plans. The essay represents a study over the benefit-determined pension plans, emphasizing, as a result of a comparing analysis, the main differences between the two major pension plans categories. At the end of the essay one can observe the conclusions that have been drawn as a result of the conducted study regarding the obtained results.

Keywords: benefit-determined pension plans, contribution-determined pension plans

JEL Classification: D82, G23, G30, J33, L22, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Moraru, Maria and Blidisel, Rodica Gabriela and Stirbu, Dan Aurelian, Case Study Over the Employee's Benefits (IAS 19) and Pension Plan Accounting (IAS 26) in Romania (January 22, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1331385
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,427
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies