Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxes and Ex-Day Returns: Evidence from Germany and the U.K.

National Tax Journal, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Jan 2009

Meziane Lasfer

Bayes Business School, City, University of London

Date Written: January 23, 2009

Abstract

I analyse the tax systems and tax reforms in Germany and the U.K. and test the hypothesis that ex-day returns are related to each country's tax differential between dividends and capital gains. The results indicate that in the U.K., where this tax differential is high and short-term trading is regulated, ex-day returns are higher, and the market microstructure and short-term trading impacts are weak. In contrast, in Germany, the tax impact is mitigated by short-term trading and market microstructure effects. The results suggest that despite their dividend tax similarities, the institutional differences between the two countries lead to different determinants of ex-day returns.

Keywords: Income and capital gains taxes in Germany and the U.K., Ex-day pricing, Short-term trading, market microstructure

JEL Classification: G12, G35

Suggested Citation:

Lasfer, Meziane, Taxes and Ex-Day Returns: Evidence from Germany and the U.K. (January 23, 2009). National Tax Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1331903
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,531
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies