Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Have IFRS Changed How Stock Prices Associate with Earnings and Book Values? Evidence from Norway

36 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2009 Last revised: 11 Jun 2013

Leif Atle Beisland

University of Agder

Kjell Henry Knivsflå

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: June 11, 2013

Abstract

Firms listed on European, Australian and an increasing number of other stock exchanges are required to report according to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). We use a Norwegian sample to examine whether the adoption of IFRS in 2005 has changed the value relevance of earnings relative to book values. IFRS are balance sheet-oriented and emphasize measurement at fair value. In contrast, Norwegian GAAP (NGAAP) are earnings-oriented and focus on measurement at transactional (historical) cost. IFRS also differ by recognizing more intangible assets, which further contributes to making IFRS less conservative than NGAAP. We find that more fair value accounting increases the value relevance of book values and decreases the value relevance of earnings. However, improved matching of expenditures on intangible assets with their future economic benefits increases the persistence of earnings and the value relevance of earnings relative to book values.

Keywords: Regulation, IFRS, accounting conservatism, transactional cost, fair value, intangible assets

JEL Classification: M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Beisland, Leif Atle and Knivsflå, Kjell Henry, Have IFRS Changed How Stock Prices Associate with Earnings and Book Values? Evidence from Norway (June 11, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1334533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1334533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D Alexander , S Archer
United Kingdom: Harcourt Brace Professional Posted: 2003
M E Barth , S Kallapur
The effects of cross-sectional scale differences on regressions in empirical accounting research
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 19 , p. 1 - 48 Posted: 1996
M E Barth , W R Landsman , D Young , Z Zhuang
Relevance of differences between net income based on IFRS and domestic standards for European firms Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Alessandro Giosi , Silvia Testarmata , Ignazio Buscema
The value relevance of financial information in troubled waters. The evidence of Italian context
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 62 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,589
RANK
43,833
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies