Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Country Analysis of Auditor Specialization Premium: Effect of Legal, Extra-Legal and Political Environments

49 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2009

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Mahmud Hossain

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Division of Accounting

Date Written: July 18, 2008

Abstract

Previous literature has provided mixed evidence of a premium in audit fee for industry-specialist auditors in US and other developed countries. In this cross-country study spanning twelve non-US countries, we provide evidence of such a premium in the international context, implying that specialist auditors provide a higher level of investor assurance than non-specialists. Further, we show that the average audit fee in countries with effective legal, extra-legal and political institutions is higher but the specialization premium is lower than in other countries. We interpret this finding as evidence that while effective institutions increase the demand for average level of audit assurance, they substitute rather than complement the incremental assurance provided by specialist auditors. This finding is reinforced by additional analysis that shows no significant specialization premium in the US, a country where institutions are most conducive to high financial statement assurance.

Keywords: Audit specialization, Legal protection, Extra-legal institutions, Political Economy

JEL Classification: G15, L11, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin and Lim, Chee Yeow and Hossain, Mahmud, Cross-Country Analysis of Auditor Specialization Premium: Effect of Legal, Extra-Legal and Political Environments (July 18, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1335051 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1335051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Anderson , J R Francis , D J Stokes
Auditing, Directorships and the Demand for Monitoring
Journal of Accounting & Public Policy , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 353 - 375 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R C Andersen , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characterisitics, accounting reporting integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,248
RANK
324,400
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies