Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing and Earnings Quality: Evidence from China Using Variability of Stock Returns and Trading Volume

Posted: 15 Mar 2009

Charles J. P. Chen

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Xijia Su

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 29, 2009

Abstract

In this study, we examine the effect of interim auditing on inter-investor convergence in China. We show a decrease in stock price volatility and trading volume after a brief transitory increase for audited interim financial statements compared to non-audited ones. We interpret this result as suggesting that investors place more weight on audited than on non-audited information. Further, this finding suggests that audited public information crowds out private information collection effort in China rather than enhancing it. We interpret this finding as being a result of less incentive for private information collection in China due to restrictions on short trading and undeveloped option and future markets in individual securities. Results of this study are robust to variations in event window length and specification of empirical measures.

Keywords: auditing, belief divergence, variability of stock returns, trading volume

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Charles J. P. and Su, Xijia and Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin, Auditing and Earnings Quality: Evidence from China Using Variability of Stock Returns and Trading Volume (January 29, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1335052
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,548
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies