Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Indian Pharmaceutical Industry: Accounting and Disclosure Practice of Intellectual Property

The Accounting World, The Icfai University Press, June 2008

Posted: 17 Nov 2009

Shurveer S. Bhanawat

Mohanlal Sukhadia University, Udaipur - Department of Accountancy & Statistics

Date Written: February 2, 2009

Abstract

The accounting treatment of intellectual property, amortisation method and disclosure practice in pharmaceutical industries have been discussed in reference to accounting standard 26.On analyzing three leading pharmaceutical companies viz Ranbaxy limited, Dr. Reddy Laboratories limited and Glaxo Smithkline pharmaceutical (India) ltd, it is found that the present system of reporting of IP in pharmaceutical companies are not adequate.All three companies fails to disclose whether an intellectual property is self acquired or developed. The biggest challenge is establishing a consensus about 'what' and 'how' to report it.

Keywords: intellectual property, amortisation, impairment losses, disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Bhanawat, Shurveer Singh, Indian Pharmaceutical Industry: Accounting and Disclosure Practice of Intellectual Property (February 2, 2009). The Accounting World, The Icfai University Press, June 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1336793
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies