Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Annual Earnings Announcements and Mandatory Adoption of IFRS

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2009 Last revised: 30 Apr 2011

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Jake Thornock

Brigham Young University

Date Written: April 14, 2011

Abstract

This study examines whether the information content of earnings announcements--abnormal return volatility and abnormal trading volume -- increases in countries following mandatory IFRS adoption, and conditions and mechanisms through which increases occur. Findings suggest information content increased in 16 countries that mandated adoption of IFRS relative to 11 that maintained domestic accounting standards, although the effect of mandatory IFRS adoption depends on the strength of legal enforcement in the adopting country. Utilizing a path analysis methodology, we find evidence of three mechanisms through which IFRS adoption increases information content: reducing reporting lag, increasing analyst following, and increasing foreign investment.

Keywords: IFRS, Earnings Announcements, Information Content

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, K20

Suggested Citation:

Landsman, Wayne R. and Maydew, Edward L. and Thornock, Jacob, The Information Content of Annual Earnings Announcements and Mandatory Adoption of IFRS (April 14, 2011). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1337567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Dan Amiram
Financial Information Globalization and Foreign Investment Decisions
Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research,11 (2), 2012 Pages: 42 Posted: 12 Aug 2009 Last revised: 7 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
W Bailey , G A Karolyi , C Salva
The economic consequences of increased disclosure: evidence from international cross-listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,562
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,855
RANK
12,454
17 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies