Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calculating Equity Risk Premium for Russian Market: An Empirical Analysis

Global Academic Society Journal: Social Science Insight, Vol. 1, No. 5, pp. 4-15, 2008

12 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2009 Last revised: 11 Mar 2012

Teimuraz Vashakmadze

Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration - Institute of Business Studies

Date Written: November 14, 2008

Abstract

If we look at equity researchers' analytical reports in Russia we will see that Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) for Russian companies is between 9% and 11%. It might be supposed that these figures are relatively low and are not showing all the risks of Russian companies.

In the paper, cost of equity (COE) for the Russian market is calculated using empirical data. For COE calculation, modified Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) with country risk premium (CRP) involved is used. For CRP calculation, 3 approaches are used: default spread, relative equity market standard deviations, and default spread plus relative standard deviations.

In the research, 2 hypotheses are set and proved:

1. Equity researchers were trying to give proof of high prices of Russian companies before financial crisis by calculating lower WACC than it was in reality;

2. Risks of investing in Russian companies have not declined in spite of pushed up ratings of sovereign Eurobonds of Russia.

Keywords: country risk premium, equity risk premium, cost of equity, cost of equity for Russia, CAPM, WACC

JEL Classification: G12, G15

Suggested Citation:

Vashakmadze, Teimuraz, Calculating Equity Risk Premium for Russian Market: An Empirical Analysis (November 14, 2008). Global Academic Society Journal: Social Science Insight, Vol. 1, No. 5, pp. 4-15, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1343007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Aswath Damodaran
Equity Risk Premiums (ERP): Determinants, Estimation and Implications
Pages: 77 Posted: 1 Oct 2008 Last revised: 17 Oct 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Indexarb
Index Insights and Market Timing Tools: Futures, Equities, Options Posted: 2008
J R Hitchner
Cost of Capital. Maroseika Posted: 2008
Yahoo! Finance
Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
495
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,396
RANK
131,274
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies