Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Valuation of Intellectual Property in Offshoring Decisions

Posted: 19 Feb 2009 Last revised: 28 Feb 2009

Gio Wiederhold

Stanford University

Amar Gupta

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

David Branson Smith

McGuire Center for Entrepreneurship, Eller College of Management, University of Arizona

S.G. Tessler

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 19, 2009

Abstract

Businesses engaging in outsourcing of professional service activities to organizations in foreign countries have focused primarily on the issues of cost and the number of jobs affected. However, significant transfers of intangibles occur in many service-based off shoring arrangements as well. Some of these intangibles are considered to be intellectual property (IP). The transfer of intellectual property that accompanies such off shoring arrangements can have significant value, making it important to understand risks of loss, obligations of taxation, and contributions to the profit-making potential of an enterprise. Software is an important and often under-valued component of such transfers of intellectual property.

This overview paper offers a interdisciplinary examination of intellectual property valuation issues and a business perspective for considering software valuation in the context of off shoring decisions and practices.

Keywords: Intellectual Property, Intangibles, Software, Valuation, Outsourcing, Offshore, Offshoring, Risk, Taxation, Tax haven

JEL Classification: G12, G15, G31, F20

Suggested Citation:

Wiederhold, Gio and Gupta, Amar and Smith, David Branson and Tessler, S.G., The Valuation of Intellectual Property in Offshoring Decisions (February 19, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1346447
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,890
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies