Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Mandatory Conversion to IFRS on the Net Income of FTSEurofirst 80 Firms

Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 3, No. 2, p. 17, 2008

15 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2009

Vincent O'Connell

University of Amsterdam Business School

Katie Sullivan

PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP

Date Written: February 19, 2009

Abstract

Since the start of 2005 all European Union (EU) firms trading in a regulated market are required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for their consolidated financial accounts. Many more countries will - soon or later - follow suit and adopt IFRS for all listed firms. Nonetheless, the process of conversion from domestic standards to IFRS can often cause confusion for both preparers and user groups. This study investigates the impact of the mandatory conversion to IFRS on the Net Income of some of the largest firms in the EU - specifically, the constituents of the FTSEurofirst 80 index. The sample for the present work comprises those 37 constituents of the FTSEurofirst 80 index which: (i) are first time adopters of IFRS and (ii) had, at the sample selection date, voluntarily revealed their 2004 annual Net Income figures under both national standards and IFRS. Our results show that the conversion to IFRS leads to a statistically significant increase in 2004 Net Income and for nearly 75% of sample firms we find that the increase is material at the 5% level. Additional analysis reveals that IFRS 3 (Business Combinations) dwarfs all other international standards in terms of driving the observed differences between reported Net Income under domestic GAAP and IFRS for our sample firms.

Keywords: IFRS, European Union, net income

JEL Classification: G15, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

O'Connell, Vincent and Sullivan, Katie, The Impact of Mandatory Conversion to IFRS on the Net Income of FTSEurofirst 80 Firms (February 19, 2009). Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 3, No. 2, p. 17, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1346133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
C A Adams , P Weetman , S J Gray
Reconciling national with international accounting standards
European Accounting Review , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 471 - 494 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Mark H. Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976 Pages: 55 Posted: 11 Apr 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M E Barth , G Clinch , T Shibano
International accounting harmonization and global equity markets
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 201 - 235 Posted: 1999
Crossref
F D S Choi , R M Levich
International Accounting Diversity: Does it Affect Market Participants
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 73 - 82 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
859
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,766
RANK
64,657
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies