Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Choice Analysis of Commercial Banks in Bangladesh: Some Policy Implications

The Cost and Mangagement, Journal of ICMAB, Vol. 34 No. 1, January-February 2006

19 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2009 Last revised: 19 Aug 2009

Masud Ibn Rahman

Daffodil International University - Faculty of Business and Economics

Tamzid Ahmed Chowdhury

Daffodil International University - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: January 1, 2006

Abstract

Various aspects of financial services in Bangladesh, especially in the public sector are not well-documented. Based on a survey, this paper attempts to gain insights into the financial service area from the perspective of the customers.

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Masud Ibn and Chowdhury, Tamzid Ahmed, Client Choice Analysis of Commercial Banks in Bangladesh: Some Policy Implications (January 1, 2006). The Cost and Mangagement, Journal of ICMAB, Vol. 34 No. 1, January-February 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1347487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Report of Financial Service Providers in Bangladesh Posted: 2004
Leonard L Berri
Personalizing the Bank: Key Opportunity in Bank Marketing
Bank Marketing , volume 8 , p. 22 - 25 Posted: 1975-04
Leonard L Berri
Service Marketing is Different
Buisness , volume 30 , p. 24 - 29 Posted: 1980-05
Bernard H Booms , J Marry , Jody Bitner , Nyquist
Analyzing the Customer/Firm Communication Component of the Service Marketing Mix" in Marketing of Services , p. 172 - 177 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,101
RANK
361,062
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Political Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies