Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Romanian Managers Perceive the Corporate Social Responsibility and its Costs and Benefits

4th International Finance Conference - Finance & Financial Economics & Risk Management& Entrepreneurial Finance & Information Technologies, 2007

26 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2009

Mariana Vuta

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Duca Ioana

Titu Maiorescu University

Ion Verboncu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Stefanescu Aurelia

Independent

Rodica Gherghina

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Monica Dudian

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Carmen Trica

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

At international level the preoccupations with social responsibility have a long history. In Romania the concept is relatively new, but it has become more visible during the last years. A thorough insight of the benefits and costs of social responsibility highlights a series of aspects. Generally, behind the adoption of certain social responsibility policies there are interests like the improvement of the company's image, the rise in sales and profit and finally the moral purposes.

Sophocles used to say that "any benefactor thinks at himself also in a certain degree". As far as the Romanian companies are concerned, this implies that the main purpose of the corporative social programs they develop is the gaining awareness in mass media. Our paper shows that, unfortunately, many companies are only interested in the mass media coverage of such events. The commitment towards community is very often on short term horizon and does not have a solid ground, being mainly a PR exercise.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, business ethics, sustainability, responsible investments, Romania

JEL Classification: M14, L21, L26

Suggested Citation:

Vuta, Mariana and Ioana, Duca and Verboncu, Ion and Aurelia, Stefanescu and Gherghina, Rodica and Monica, Dudian and Trica, Carmen, How Romanian Managers Perceive the Corporate Social Responsibility and its Costs and Benefits. 4th International Finance Conference - Finance & Financial Economics & Risk Management& Entrepreneurial Finance & Information Technologies, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1347368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1347368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A B Carroll
Corporate social responsibility: Will industry respond to cut-backs in social program funding? Vital Speeches of the Day , volume 49 , p. 604 - 608 Posted: 1983
A B Carroll
A three-dimensional model of corporate performance
Academy of Management Review , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 497 - 505 Posted: 1979
Crossref
The Copenhagen Centre It Simply Works Better -Campaign Report on
European Csr Excellence
Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,016
RANK
252,723
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Better Late than Early: Vertical Differentiation in the Adoption of a New Technology

By Prajit K. Dutta, Saul Lach, ...

An Empirical Analysis of the Strategic Use of Corporate Social Responsibility

By Donald S. Siegel and Donald F. Vitaliano

Second-Mover Advantages in Dynamic Quality Competition

By Heidrun C. Hoppe-wewetzer and Ulrich Lehmann-grube

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies