Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remarks on Corporate Governance Standards and Their Importance

The Annals of the University of Oradea, Economic Science Series, Vol. 14, 2007

6 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2009

Duca Ioana

Titu Maiorescu University

Rodica Gherghina

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

According to the OECD, corporate governance is the system by means of which companies are managed and controlled. In 1999, the OECD Principles on the Administration of Corporations were approved, and are currently recognized among the 12 pillars of international financial stability, serving as a reference point for compiling a collection of national corporate governance codes. These principles refer to: the rights of shareholders and their protection, the equitable treatment of all shareholders, including the minority and foreign shareholders, the role and rights of stakeholders, the transparency of information and its prompt dissemination, the responsibilities of the Board of Directors and of the executive management. Making efficient use of the resources, a decrease in the cost of capital for companies, increasing the investors' trust by means of a significant diminution in the managers' discretional attitude and the decrease in corruption are the most important benefits of implementing high standards in the administration of companies. Corporate governance is also recognized as a key factor in establishing an attractive business environment and in increasing the efficiency of capital markets

Keywords: corporate governance standards, capital markets, transparency, systemic stability

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Ioana, Duca and Gherghina, Rodica, Remarks on Corporate Governance Standards and Their Importance. The Annals of the University of Oradea, Economic Science Series, Vol. 14, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1347650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Lawrence D Brown , C Marcus
Corporate Governance Study: The Correlation between Corporate Governance and Company Performance Posted: 2004
A Cadbury
Foreword to Corporate Governance and Development
Global Corporate Governance Forum , volume 1 Posted: 2003
B Erbiste
Corporate Governance in Brazil: Is There a Link Between Corporate Governance and Financial Performance in the Brazilian Market?
ABN AMRO Asset Management Posted: 2005-07
P A Gompers , J L Ishii , A Metrick
Corporate Governance and Equity Prices
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 1 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,090
RANK
296,145
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance and Equity Prices

By Paul A. Gompers, Joy L. Ishii, ...

What Matters in Corporate Governance?

By Lucian A. Bebchuk, Alma Cohen, ...

Governance Mechanisms and Equity Prices

By Martijn Cremers and Vinay B. Nair

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies