Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Evidence on Analyst Stock Recommendations, Valuations, and Returns

51 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2009 Last revised: 23 Jan 2010

Ran Barniv

Kent State University - Department of Accounting

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Mark Myring

Ball State University - Department of Accounting

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 19, 2010

Abstract

This is the first large study to examine the relation between analysts’ stock recommendations, earnings forecasts, and future excess stock returns in an international context. We first document that some of the peculiar findings established in the U.S. extend to other countries where individual investor participation in the stock market is high (especially when Japan is excluded from the sample). Specifically, we find that analysts’ recommendations relate positively to simple heuristics but negatively to more rigorous residual income valuation estimates (scaled by price). Furthermore, residual income valuation estimates relate positively to future returns, indicating their usefulness to investors, while analysts’ recommendations and heuristics relate negatively to future stock returns. In contrast, in countries with low investor participation rates, these peculiar findings are less observable. In these countries, analysts appear to rely relatively more on residual income valuation estimates in setting their recommendations, and these recommendations relate positively to future returns. The overall results are consistent with analysts’ recommendations being influenced by economic incentives other than identifying mispriced stocks in countries with high investor participation rates, substantiating puzzling results in the U.S.

Keywords: Analysts, international, valuation, earnings forecasts, stock recommendations, investor participation, investor protection

JEL Classification: G29, G14, G15, K22

Suggested Citation:

Barniv, Ran and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Myring, Mark and Thomas, Wayne B., International Evidence on Analyst Stock Recommendations, Valuations, and Returns (January 19, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1350616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1350616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
J Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Is the U.S. stock market myopic?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang , M Trombley
Residual-income-based valuation predicts future stock returns: Evidence on mispricing vs. risk explanations
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 377 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Amir Andrew Amadi
Equity Home Bias: A Disappearing Phenomenon?
Pages: 37 Posted: 21 Oct 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
905
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,170
RANK
60,075
5 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies