Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relevance of Academic Research and Researchers' Role in the IASB's Financial Reporting Standard Setting

48 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2009

Rolf Uwe Fülbier

University of Bayreuth

Joerg-Markus Hitz

University of Tübingen

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: October 2008

Abstract

The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) faces a vast number of standard-setting issues at all levels of financial reporting. The purpose of this paper is to explore the relevance of academic research for financial reporting standard setting and the role of academic researchers in the standard-setting process. We contribute to the current debate surrounding International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by drawing inferences from prior findings regarding the role of research in the IASB's standard-setting efforts. After defining three broad categories of standard-setting questions, we explore how the international heterogeneity of its constituency adds constraints to the IASB's work. We then investigate from an epistemological perspective whether and how academic research can inform policy makers. Based on a review of extant literature, we discuss the general criteria which a piece of research should fulfill in order to be perceived as relevant and useful by standard setters. This discussion is followed by more detailed considerations regarding the suitability of different research approaches for each of the three categories of standard-setting questions. We also touch on the subject of inferential problems inherent in most academic accounting research. Since our main objective is to contribute insights relevant to the IASB's efforts, we analyze academics' career systems and their incentives to engage in research intermediation, before discussing possible ways in which interested researchers can channel their insights into the IASB's standardsetting process. Overall, we emphasize the international dimension of IASB standard setting and its implications for relevant research.

Keywords: IASB, IFRS, standard setting, academic research, value relevance, financial reporting

JEL Classification: B40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fülbier, Rolf Uwe and Hitz, Joerg-Markus and Sellhorn, Thorsten, Relevance of Academic Research and Researchers' Role in the IASB's Financial Reporting Standard Setting (October 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1351742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1351742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
185 References
Statement on Accounting Theory and Theory Acceptance Posted: 1977
Crossref
Aaa Fasc ; Linsmeier , T J
Criteria for Assessing the Quality of an Accounting Standard
Association's Financial Accounting Standards Committee , volume 12 , p. 161 - 162 Posted: 1998
A R Abdel-Khalik , B Ajinkya
Empirical Research in Accounting: A Methodological Viewpoint
AAA Posted: 1979
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Do firms understate stock options-based compensation expense disclosed under SFAS 123?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , p. 429 - 461 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Alberto Quagli , Francesco Avallone , Paola Ramassa
The Real Impact Factor and the Gap between Accounting Research and Practice
FINANCIAL REPORTING , issue 1 , p. 29 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,132
RANK
141,605
1 Citations
185 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies