Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Regulation and Supervision in Bank-Dominated Financial Systems: A Comparison Between Japan and Germany

European Journal of Law and Economics, Vol. 27, No. 2, 2009

Posted: 2 Mar 2009

Ralf Bebenroth

Kobe University, RIEB-Center

Diemo Dietrich

University of Greifswald - Department of Economics

Uwe Vollmer

University of Leipzig

Date Written: March 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper compares bank regulation and supervision in Japan and Germany. We consider these countries because they both have bank-dominated financial systems and their banking systems are often lumped together as one model, yet, bank stability differs significantly. We show that Japan and Germany have chosen different approaches to bank regulation and supervision and ask why they made their choices. We argue that bank regulation and supervision were less efficient in Japan than in Germany and that these differences were decisive for bank behavior.

Keywords: Japan and Germany, Bank regulation and supervision, Deposit insurance, Lender of last resort, Forbearance, Varieties of capitalism

JEL Classification: G21, G38, P52

Suggested Citation:

Bebenroth, Ralf and Dietrich, Diemo and Vollmer, Uwe, Bank Regulation and Supervision in Bank-Dominated Financial Systems: A Comparison Between Japan and Germany (March 1, 2009). European Journal of Law and Economics, Vol. 27, No. 2, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1351422
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,583
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies