Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Change as Relational Drifting: A Field Study of Experiments with Performance Measurement

Management Accounting Research, Vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 273-308, 2007

Posted: 26 Apr 2009

Paul Andon

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Jane Baxter

University of New South Wales

Wai Fong Chua

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

This paper narrates attempts to manufacture performance measures, including a balanced scorecard (BSC). Throughout the field encounter with a business unit of an Australasian telecommunications organisation, various performance measurement approaches were trialled in an effort to obtain a stable suite of metrics. However, in spite of management's desire to improve performance through measurement, the considerable amount of time and resources committed to this project, as well as the intermittent assistance of 'experts', such desires remained unfulfilled. Instead, the performance agenda retained an unsettled quality. This unsettledness is argued to be a product of the relationally-dependent and experimental nature of accounting change. Through this account of performance measures 'in the making', we engage with recent debates about the nature of accounting change and augment the concept of 'drift' introduced by Quattrone and Hopper [Quattrone, P., Hopper, T., 2001. What does organizational change mean? Speculations on a taken for granted category. Manage. Acc. Res. 12(4), 403-435]. We offer the notion of 'relational drifting', thus highlighting the situated and experimental means through which accounting inscriptions are fabricated. We also highlight the inherent unsettledness of accounting as a 'knowledge object' - an object which reflects partial and changing 'ontologies', (re)shaped by the variegated and shifting collectives of elements tied to it.

Keywords: Accounting change, Balanced scorecard, Field study, Performance measurement, Relational drifting

Suggested Citation:

Andon, Paul and Baxter, Jane A. and Chua, Wai Fong, Accounting Change as Relational Drifting: A Field Study of Experiments with Performance Measurement (2007). Management Accounting Research, Vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 273-308, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1353047
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies