Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFAC's Conception of the Evolution of Management Accounting

Advances in Management Accounting, Vol. 15, pp. 229-247, 2006

16 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2009

Magdy G. Abdel-Kader

Anglia Ruskin University

Robert G. Luther

University of the West of England (UWE) - Bristol Business School

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

IFAC's Management Accounting Practice Statement Number 1, revised in 1998, is concerned with management accounting practices. This research note describes an operationalization of its conception of the evolution of management accounting. The paper is informed by experience in developing and applying an IFAC-based model to survey the stage of evolution of the management accounting practices in a United Kingdom industry sector. The model is intrinsically interesting and has the potential for replication in other contexts and in comparative cross-national, inter-industry or longitudinal studies.

Keywords: IFAC, Management Accounting Evolution

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Abdel-Kader, Magdy G. and Luther, Robert G., IFAC's Conception of the Evolution of Management Accounting (2006). Advances in Management Accounting, Vol. 15, pp. 229-247, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1358331
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Abd Rahman , I K Omar , N Sulaiman , S
The national award for management accounting best practices: Malaysian scenario Posted: 2005-04
A Allott
Management Accounting Change , p. 54 - 55 Posted: 2000-07
Crossref
A Allott , P Weymouth , J Claret
Transforming the profession: management accounting is changing, In IFAC (Financial Management Accounting Committee) (ed) A Profession Transforming: From Accounting to Management , p. 127 - 147 Posted: 2001
S Anderson , W Lanen
Economic transition, strategy and the evolution of management accounting practices: the case of India, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 24 , p. 379 - 412 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,444
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,882
RANK
30,711
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Influencing Contingencies on Management Accounting Practices in Estonian Manufacturing Companies

By Toomas Haldma and Kertu Laats

Management Accounting Practices in the British Food and Drinks Industry

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

The Impact of Firm Characteristics on Management Accounting Practices: A UK-Based Empirical Analysis

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies