Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Into the Shadows - A Reflection on International Developments in Public Sector Accounting

Presented to the 30th Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association, 25-27 April 2007, Lisbon, Portugal

34 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2009

Olov Olson

University of Gothenburg - School of Business, Economics and Law

Christopher Humphrey

The University of Manchester - Division of Accounting and Finance

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: April 25, 2007

Abstract

Our earlier studies have reported on contemporary international developments in public sector accounting (PSA) within the reforms of New Public Management (NPM) and New Public Financial Management (NPFM). This paper focuses on what we consider to be the crucial change associated with NPFM, the transformation of traditional modified cash accounting into accrual accounting as part of these reforms. This paper discusses the change, in terms of structure and processes, focusing primarily on Australia, Sweden and the United Kingdom. The research finds that the accrual accounting in the public sector in these three different countries varies, and that there is a similar variation in private sector accounting in the three countries. We also find that the influence of the international standard-setters has recently become stronger in the public sector, but that a main decision-maker in the PSA, the politician, seems to be lost in the standard-setting process.

Keywords: A Reflection on International Developments in Public Sector Accounting , contemporary international developments, public sector accounting, New Public Financial Management, New Public Management

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Olson, Olov and Humphrey, Christopher and Guthrie, James, Into the Shadows - A Reflection on International Developments in Public Sector Accounting (April 25, 2007). Presented to the 30th Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association, 25-27 April 2007, Lisbon, Portugal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1360535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A Barton
Professional accounting standards and the public sector -a mismatch
Abacus , issue 2 , p. 138 - 158 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Borins
Lessons from the new public management in Commonwealth nations
International Public Management Journal , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 58 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Bourn
Managing resources to deliver better services Posted: 2003
B Brorström
Accrual accounting, politics and politicians. Financial Accountability and Management, 14/4 , p. 319 - 333 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,516
RANK
161,684
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies