Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Accounting Regulation in the Extractive Industries: An International Review

International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 31, No. 1, 1996

Posted: 18 Mar 2009

Robert G. Luther

University of the West of England (UWE) - Bristol Business School

Date Written: 1996

Abstract

In view of the economic significance of extractive industries, the special accounting issues raised, the wide range of accounting figures that can be obtained, and the numerous calls over many years for standardization, there has been less regulation of their accounting than might have been expected. The development of accounting regulations and practices in the extractive industries in five countries is reviewed and salient issues are explored. The continuing international diversity is the result of the vested interests of large companies, technical accounting complications, and a view that, given the limitations of historical cost accounting, the cost of regulation and standardization would not be justified. As a result of the conceptual framework programmes, rising commodity prices and increased environmental accountability extractive industry accounting has recently returned to various agenda. This review shows that the debate is likely to be more related to politics than accounting and may not be altogether rational or conclusive.

Keywords: Accounting harmonization, Accounting regulation, Extractive industry accounting, International accounting

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Luther, Robert G., The Development of Accounting Regulation in the Extractive Industries: An International Review (1996). International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 31, No. 1, 1996, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1360356
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,055
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies