Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Audit of Public Private Partnerships in Australia: A Lack of Public Accountability?

4th International Conference on Accounting, Auditing and Management in Public Sector Reforms EIASM, 7-9 September 2006, Siena, Italy

66 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2009

Linda M. English

University of Sydney Business School

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: September 7, 2006

Abstract

This paper tests English and Guthrie's (2003) proposition that Departments of Treasury are the sole evaluators of PPPs by mapping the focus, extent and patterning of state audit of PPPs in Australia in a period spanning 1988-2005. The supporting tasks undertaken in the paper are threefold: (1) a review of the audit and public accountability literature associated with PPPs; (2) a stocktake of the financial value, categories and jurisdiction of PPP activity; and (3) identification of twenty-two key elements steering PPP development, implementation, management and public accountability disclosure. PPP audit is mapped against these elements to determine the focus, extent and patterning PPP audits.

The paper confirms the contested nature of performance audit, and its dependence on situationally-specific social and organisational factors (Parker and Guthrie, 1999). A consideration of totality of PPP audit in Victoria suggests that information is available to the parliament and the public, but it is difficult to find the relevant information, weakening public accountability.

We conclude that not all PPP projects, or even all PPP categories, appear to have been subject to systematic auditing by any of Australia's auditors-general. The results confirm Watson's (2003) observation that public accountability of PPP arrangements is weakened by a diffusion of disclosure, including disclosures by Australian auditors-general.

Keywords: Private Partnerships in Australia, PPPs, key elements steering PPP development, accountability disclosure, Australian auditors-general

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, M49, H42, L33, R42

Suggested Citation:

English, Linda M. and Guthrie, James, State Audit of Public Private Partnerships in Australia: A Lack of Public Accountability? (September 7, 2006). 4th International Conference on Accounting, Auditing and Management in Public Sector Reforms EIASM, 7-9 September 2006, Siena, Italy, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1361284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1361284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
L Allen , S Scott
Tunnel takes its toll on PPPs
The Australian Financial Review Posted: 2005-10-24
Audit Act Posted: 1994
Crossref
Private Care for Public Patients: The Joondalup Health Campus: Performance Examination Posted: 1997-11
Performance Examination: Private care for Public Patients: A Follow-on Examination of the Joondalup Health Campus Contract Posted: 2000-06
Load more
1 Citations
Luis Cracel Viana , José António Moreira , Paulo Alves
State audit of public–private partnerships: Effects on transparency, auditor's roles, and impact on auditee's reactions
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 633 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,963
RANK
204,845
1 Citations
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Emasculating Public Accountability in the Name of Competition: Transformation of State Audit in Victoria

By Linda M. English and James Guthrie

Mandate, Independence and Funding: Resolution of a Twenty-Five Year Struggle between Parliament and the Executive Over the Powers of the Australian Commonwealth Auditor-General

By Linda M. English and James Guthrie

The Effect of Contracting-Out Audits on Resource Allocation and Efficiency in Public Sector Audits

By Kar-ming Chong, Colin Dolley, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies