Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards in the Australian and New Zealand Public Administrations: Experiences and Perspectives

Presented at International Congress on Accounting Standards for Public Administration, 12-13 December 2003, Ferrara, Italy

18 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2009

Ron Day

The University of Sydney

Christine Merle Ryan

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: December 12, 2003

Abstract

This paper examines the current move to the international harmonisation of public sector accounting standards in Australia and New Zealand. It argues that an examination of the historical arrangements to standard setting will do much to inform the current dilemmas posed by the current international harmonisation process. New Zealand has always had an 'adoption' culture and has had sector neutral standards. On the other hand, in Australia the private sector has dominated the consciousness of the professional accounting standards regulators. The public sector has been the forgotten sector, and rather than being allowed to develop its own standards that suit its unique operating characteristics, it has had to fall in line with the political decisions made on behalf of the private sector. The paper draws on examples to illustrate the unintended consequences of these decisions.

Keywords: international harmonisation of public sector accounting standards, Australia, New Zealand, professional accounting standards, Public Sector

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Day, Ron and Ryan, Christine Merle and Guthrie, James, Accounting Standards in the Australian and New Zealand Public Administrations: Experiences and Perspectives (December 12, 2003). Presented at International Congress on Accounting Standards for Public Administration, 12-13 December 2003, Ferrara, Italy, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1362090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
AASB plans for adopting IASB standards by 2005, last updated Posted: 2003-10-27
Crossref
K Alfredson
Head to head on international harmonisation
Australian CPA , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 34 - 35 Posted: 2002-03
I Ball
Posted: 2003
Simon Bradbury , Frank Micallef
International Public Sector Accounting Standards
The Standard , issue 6 , p. 18 - 20 Posted: 1998-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,606
RANK
258,444
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies