Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Institutional Investment Decisions

The Accounting Review, 87:6, November 2012, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2009 Last revised: 1 Jun 2012

Annita Florou

Bocconi University

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: April 20, 2012

Abstract

We examine whether the mandatory introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards leads to an increase in institutional investor demand for equities. Using a large ownership database covering all types of institutional investors from around the world, we find that institutional holdings increase for mandatory IFRS adopters. Changes in holdings are concentrated around first-time annual reporting events. Second, we document that the positive IFRS effects on institutional holdings are concentrated among investors whose orientation and styles suggest they are most likely to benefit from higher quality financial statements, including active, value and growth investors. This result is consistent with the holdings changes being associated with the financial reporting regime change. Finally, we show that increased institutional holdings are concentrated in countries where enforcement and reporting incentives are strongest, and where the differences between local GAAP and IFRS are relatively high. Overall, our study helps shed new light on the channels by which IFRS information becomes impounded in market outcomes.

Keywords: Accounting regulation, IFRS, standard-setting, accounting quality, comparability, institutional investment decisions

JEL Classification: G11, K22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Florou, Annita and Pope, Peter F., Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Institutional Investment Decisions (April 20, 2012). The Accounting Review, 87:6, November 2012, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1362564 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1362564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
C Armstrong , M E Barth , A Jagolizer , E J
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 62 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: the impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,944
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,452
RANK
19,478
19 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies