Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparison of the Value Relevance Between the Purchase and Rental Treatment of Leases

The Journal of Musashi University, Vol. 57, Nos. 3,4, pp. 531-551

23 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2009 Last revised: 21 May 2010

Eiko Arata

Musashi University

Date Written: February 3, 2010

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to compare the earnings value relevance between rental and purchase treatments, i.e. to examine whether the capitalization of leases is appropriate in terms of income measurement rather than as recognition on balance sheets. I have chosen to examine a Japanese sample because earnings information in Japan is available both when leases are treated as rentals and when leases are treated as purchases. The results show that the value relevance of earnings-via purchase treatment rather than by rental treatment is significantly higher only in 2003. This might imply that investors utilize footnote information only in particular situations.

Although we need further examination of why investors evaluate leases differently only in 2003 and it is important to expand this implication carefully in order to evaluate the relevance of capitalization of operating leases, this paper offers serious implications for the FASB/IASB project.

Keywords: Accounting for leases, Capitalization Value relevance

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Arata, Eiko, Comparison of the Value Relevance Between the Purchase and Rental Treatment of Leases (February 3, 2010). The Journal of Musashi University, Vol. 57, Nos. 3,4, pp. 531-551, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1367508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The market valuation implications of net periodic pension cost components
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , p. 27 - 62 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting; another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R G Bowman
The Debt Equivalence of Leases: An Empirical Investigation
The Accounting Review , issue 2 , p. 237 - 253 Posted: 1980-04
D Chambers , R Jennings , R B Thompson , I I
Evidence on the Usefulness of Capital Expenditures as an Alternative Measure of Depreciation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 4 , p. 169 - 195 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,414
RANK
330,157
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies