Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Principles- vs. Rules-Based Standards Have a Differential Impact on U.S. Auditors' Decisions?

38 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2009

Joann Segovia

Winona State University

Vicky Arnold

NHH Norwegian School of Economics; University of Central Florida

Steve G. Sutton

University of Central Florida; NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: March 26, 2009

Abstract

Multiple stakeholders in the financial reporting process have articulated concerns over the rules-based orientation that U.S. accounting standards have adopted. Many argue that a more principles-based approach to standards setting, typified by international accounting standards, would improve the quality of financial reporting and strengthen the auditor's position when dealing with client pressure, thereby enabling a focus on transparency and fairness of financial reports. In early 2009, the U.S. appeared poised to transition U.S. accounting standards to international accounting standards. The transition decision was made after the recommendations of the SEC Advisory Committee on Improvements to Financial Reporting (i.e. SEC Pozen Committee) publicly expressed strong support in its final report (U.S. SEC 2008a). The SEC in turn issued its Roadmap for the Potential Use of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. Issuers on November 14, 2008 (U.S. SEC 2008b) outlining the transition procedures. However, with Shapiro taking over as chairperson of the SEC, this move now appears less likely pending a stronger review of how principles-based international standards may impact the strength of financial regulatory oversight-a potential delay met with disdain by the pro principles-based European regulatory community (Doran 2009). While transition to international standards continues to progress, little research examining whether principles-based standards affect auditor decision-making has been conducted. The purpose of this study is to explore the impact of principles- vs. rules-based standards on auditors' willingness to allow preparers leeway in reporting practices and to consider how auditors' decision behavior is influenced by potential client pressure and/or opposing pressure from the SEC. Based on a sample of 114 experienced auditors, the results show that auditors are more willing to allow clients to manage earnings under rules-based standards; and, these results are persistent even under external pressure. Results also indicate that more experienced auditors are less willing to allow clients who exert high pressure to report earnings aggressively while SEC pressure has more affect on less experienced auditors. These results provide important insights to the FASB, SEC, and IASB as they weigh arguments underlying the principles- vs. rules-based debate.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G38, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Segovia, Joann and Arnold, Vicky and Sutton, Steve G. and Sutton, Steve G., Do Principles- vs. Rules-Based Standards Have a Differential Impact on U.S. Auditors' Decisions? (March 26, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1368978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1368978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Commentary: Evaluating conceptsbased vs. rules-based approaches to standard setting
Accounting Horizons , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 89 Posted: 2003
Crossref
U Anderson , L Koonce
Explanation as a method for evaluating client-suggested causes in analytical procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 14 , p. 124 - 132 Posted: 1995
U L Anderson , L Koonce , G Marchant
The effects of source-competence information and its timing on auditors' performance of analytical procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 148 Posted: 1994
J Barton , P J Simko
The balance sheet as an earnings management constraint
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Sanaz Aghazadeh , Owen Brown , Laura Guichard Latiolais , Kris Hoang
Persuasion in Auditing: A Review Through the Lens of the Communication-Persuasion Matrix
Forthcoming at European Accounting Review · 88 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 10 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 459
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,699
RANK
106,376
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Behavioral Evidence on the Effects of Principles- and Rules-Based Standards

By Mark W. Nelson

Earnings Quality Under Rules- vs. Principles-Based Accounting Standards: A Test of the Skinner Hypothesis

By Erin Webster and Daniel B. Thornton

Principles-Based Versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions

By Christopher P. Agoglia, Timothy Doupnik, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies