Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Antecedents and Consequences of Earnings Opacity: Toward an International Contingency Theory

110 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2009

Ahmed Riahi-Belkaoui

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 26, 2009

Abstract

This paper posits that the phenomenon of earnings opacity is not only the result of legal, religious, political, social, economic and accounting antecedents but also creates consequences for the quality of government, corporate valuation, economic growth and productivity of nations. The examination of the empirical relations between earnings opacity and its antecedents and consequences is viewed as a first step toward the development of an international contingency theory of earnings opacity.

Keywords: earnings opacity, international contingency theory of earnings opacity

Suggested Citation:

Riahi-Belkaoui, Ahmed, Antecedents and Consequences of Earnings Opacity: Toward an International Contingency Theory (March 26, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1368972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1368972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
129 References
Daron Acemoglu
Reward structures and the allocation of talent
European Economic Review , volume 39 , p. 17 - 33 Posted: 1995-01
Crossref
Alicia Adsera , Carles Boix , Mark Payne
Are You Being Served?: Political Accountability and Quality of Government
IDB Working Paper No. 368 Pages: 46 Posted: 21 Apr 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anup Agrawal , Charles R Knoeber
Do some outside directors play a political role?
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Fouad Ainajjar , Kl
Economic freedom and macroeconomic determinants of economic growth: Cross-country evidence
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 1 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Mostafa A. Ali , Nazimah Hussin , Hossam Haddad , Reem Al-Araj , Ibtihal A. Abed
A Multidimensional View of Intellectual Capital: The Impact on Innovation Performance
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 216 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Mark Humphery‐Jenner , Zacharias Sautner , Jo‐Ann Suchard
Cross‐border mergers and acquisitions: The role of private equity firms
Strategic Management Journal , volume 38 , issue 8 , p. 1688 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,045
RANK
327,319
2 Citations
129 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies