Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Overview of the Diffusion of Advanced Techniques

Posted: 14 May 2009

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: March 31, 2009

Abstract

This chapter addresses a variety of factors influencing the diffusion of advanced techniques in organizations with particular reference to advanced cost and management accounting practices. Having identified almost all of influencing factors addressed in the literature, this chapter also develops a model for the diffusion of advanced techniques and clarifies the most significant group of influencing factors responsible for such a diffusion process from users' point of view.

Addressing diffusion of advanced techniques in the global environment as a practical issue requires global evidence, which is almost impossible to provide in a single study. However, to address such an issue and to explore significant factors influencing the diffusion of advanced techniques in the organizations, this chapter relies on the results of recent surveys on the diffusion of advanced cost and management accounting techniques as an example. The diffusion model developed in this chapter is more likely to be applicable to any diffusion study, investigating the diffusion process of either accounting or nonaccounting advanced techniques in the global environment, with minor modification.

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Askarany, Davood, An Overview of the Diffusion of Advanced Techniques (March 31, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1370777
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,199
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies