Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Equity Returns and Disclosure Around the World

Journal of International Business Studies, 2009

EFA 2004 MAASTRICHT

European Economic Association (EEA), 2004

43 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2009 Last revised: 15 Apr 2009

Douglas J. Cumming

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Uwe Walz

Goethe University Frankfurt - Institute of Economics; Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 30, 2004

Abstract

To obtain more funds from the institutional investors, private equity fund managers may report inflated valuations of private investee companies that are not yet sold. However, such overvaluations may result in a reputational cost when those investments are realized. Using evidence from 39 countries, we show that there are significant systematic biases in managers' reporting of fund performance. We find that these biases depend on the accounting and legal environment in a country, and on proxies for the degree of information asymmetry between institutional investors and private equity fund managers.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting, Private Equity and Portfolio Diversification, Venture Capital

JEL Classification: G24, G28, G31, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Cumming, Douglas J. and Walz, Uwe, Private Equity Returns and Disclosure Around the World (March 30, 2004). Journal of International Business Studies, 2009, EFA 2004 MAASTRICHT, European Economic Association (EEA), 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1370726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
641
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,763
RANK
5,679
27 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World: An Empirical Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World: An Empirical Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Venture Capital and the Structure of Capital Markets: Banks Versus Stock Markets

By Ronald J. Gilson and Bernard S. Black

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies