Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Patriotism, Taxation and International Mobility

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP7216

44 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2009

Kai A. Konrad

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research); IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Salmai Qari

Berlin Centre for Empirical Economics (BCEE); German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin); Berlin School of Economics and Law

Benny Geys

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2009

Abstract

For patriotic citizens, living in their native country is intrinsically preferable compared to living in the diaspora. In this paper, we analyze the implications of such a patriotic lock-in in a world with international migration and redistributive taxation. In a formal model of redistribution with international migration and fiscal competition we derive the main hypothesis: that countries with a more patriotic population should have higher redistributive taxes. Using ISSP survey data and combining them with OECD taxation data, we find robust evidence suggesting that a) higher patriotism is associated with higher tax burdens, and b) this relation is stronger for the upper-middle range of the income distribution.

Keywords: fiscal competition, international mobility, patriotism, redistribution, taxation

JEL Classification: H20, H73

Suggested Citation:

Konrad, Kai A. and Qari, Salmai and Geys, Benny, Patriotism, Taxation and International Mobility (March 2009). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP7216, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1372536
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
79 References
Benedict Anderson
Imagined communities: Re ‡ections on the origin and spread of nationalism Posted: 1991
Fredrik Andersson , Kai A Konrad
Human capital investment and globalization in extortionary states
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1539 - 1555 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Klaus Armingeon , Romana Careja , Marlène Gerber , Phillip Leimgruber
Codebook: Comparative political data set III Posted: 1990
Anthony B Atkinson
The changing distribution of earnings in OECD countries
The Rodolfo Debenedetti Lecture Series) Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,928
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Shadow Economy, Tax Morale, Governance and Institutional Quality: A Panel Analysis

By Benno Torgler and Friedrich Schneider

Mobile Tax Base as a Global Common

By Kai A. Konrad

Are Patriots Bigots? An Inquiry into the Vices of In-Group Pride

By Zachary Elkins and Rui J.p. De Figueiredo

 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies