Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External versus Internal Monitoring: The Importance of Multiple Large Shareholders and Families to Auditor Choice in Western European Firms

61 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2009 Last revised: 2 Jun 2018

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: May 28, 2018

Abstract

The ownership structures of Western European firms engender agency conflicts between: (i) owners and managers (type I); and (ii) minority and controlling shareholders (type II). Prior research stresses that credible financial reporting ameliorates agency problems by identifying any diversion of corporate resources. We examine whether external monitoring by a high-quality auditor helps reduce the agency problems embedded in the ownership structures of Western European firms. In regressions that control for firm characteristics as well as country and industry fixed effects, we find that the demand for a Big Four auditor is insensitive to whether the largest shareholder’s control rights exceed her cash flow rights. Consequently, we fail to find any evidence that the agency conflict between minority and controlling shareholders affects the demand for external monitoring. In contrast, we find strong, robust evidence that firms with multiple large shareholders and family-dominated firms are associated with a lower demand for Big Four auditors. This suggests that committed internal monitoring by multiple large shareholders and families is valuable, which reduces the benefit of external monitoring by a Big Four auditor. Collectively, our research suggests that Western European firms rely more heavily on Big Four auditors when the type I agency problem stemming from the separation of ownership from management is worse. However, supplementary analysis reveals that East Asian firms that are known to suffer from poor corporate governance do not substitute between external monitoring by a high-quality auditor and internal monitoring by multiple large shareholders or families, which squares with prior research that the type II agency problem is more relevant in this region.

Keywords: auditor choice, ownership structure, corporate governance, Western Europe

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Pittman, Jeffrey A., External versus Internal Monitoring: The Importance of Multiple Large Shareholders and Families to Auditor Choice in Western European Firms (May 28, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1373808 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1373808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
758
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,560
RANK
76,378
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies