Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management or Forecast Guidance to Meet Analyst Expectations?

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 39, No. 1, pp. 3-35, 2008

53 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2009

Vasiliki E. Athanasakou

Saint Mary's University, Canada - Sobey School of Business

Norman C. Strong

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: December 28, 2008

Abstract

We examine whether UK firms engage in earnings management or forecast guidance to ensure that their reported earnings meet analyst earnings expectations. We explore two earnings management mechanisms: a) positive abnormal working capital accruals and b) classification shifting of core expenses to non-recurring items. We find no evidence of a positive association between income-increasing abnormal working capital accruals and the probability of meeting analyst forecasts. Instead we find evidence consistent with a subset of larger firms shifting small core expenses to other non-recurring items to just hit analyst expectations with core earnings. We also find that the probability of meeting analyst expectations increases with downward guided forecasts. Overall our results suggest that UK firms are more likely to engage in earnings forecast guidance or, for a subset of larger firms, in classification shifting rather than in accruals management to avoid negative earnings surprises.

Keywords: meeting analyst expectations, abnormal accruals, earnings forecast guidance, classification shifting

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M47, G29

Suggested Citation:

Athanasakou, Vasiliki E. and Strong, Norman Charles and Walker, Martin, Earnings Management or Forecast Guidance to Meet Analyst Expectations? (December 28, 2008). Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 39, No. 1, pp. 3-35, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1373224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Differences in Commercial Database Reported Earnings: Implications for Empirical Research
Pages: 51 Posted: 1 Nov 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Can stock recommendations predict earnings management and analysts' earnings forecast errors?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2003
Crossref
V Athanasakou , N C Strong , M Walker
Classificatory income smoothing: the impact of a change in regime for reporting financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 26 , p. 387 - 435 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
833
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,726
RANK
67,341
8 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies