Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Reporting and Stock Price Informativeness

54 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2009

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Philip Joos

Tilburg University; TIAS School for Business and Society

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Sofie Van der Meulen

Catholic University of Lille - IÉSEG School of Management, Lille Campus

Date Written: April 14, 2009

Abstract

In this paper, we examine whether mandatory adoption of IFRS reduces firm opacity and contributes to stock price informativeness. Using data from EU countries, we document a V-shaped pattern in stock return synchronicity around IFRS adoption which is consistent with IFRS disclosures revealing new firm-specific information in the adoption period (i.e., a reduction of synchronicity) and subsequently lowering the surprise of future disclosures (i.e., an increase in synchronicity). We also find that mandatory IFRS adoption (1) increases analyst ability to incorporate industry-level information into stock prices and (2) reduces the private information advantage enjoyed by institutional owners. Further, our results are especially driven by firms domiciled in strong enforcement countries, highlighting the importance of enforcement quality for the transparency effects of IFRS. Overall, our study highlights the role of several key elements of the information environment and how these elements interact with accounting standards.

Keywords: Mandatory IFRS adoption, stock price informativeness, synchronicity

JEL Classification: M41, M45, G12, N20

Suggested Citation:

Beuselinck, Christof and Joos, Philip and Khurana, Inder and Van der Meulen, Sofie, Mandatory IFRS Reporting and Stock Price Informativeness (April 14, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1381242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1381242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
K Adjaouté , J Danthine
Equity returns and integration: Is Europe changing?
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 20 , p. 555 - 570 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A L Ali , Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A S Ali , And O Klasa , Li
Institutional stakeholdings and better-informed traders at earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,908
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,077
RANK
20,085
39 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies