Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Stakeholders' Needs and Their Inference Upon Financial Reports of SMEs

Journal of International Business and Economics, 2009

14 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2009 Last revised: 20 Aug 2009

Adela Deaconu

Babes-Bolyal University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Nistor Cristina Silvia

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Irimie Popa

Babes-Bolyai University

Date Written: April 15, 2009

Abstract

In the context of the international trend to simplify the SMEs’ financial reporting, one may identify a stringent call for the identification and serious analysis of the SMEs’ specific stakeholders and their needs. It appears that these needs are not sufficiently developed at present so that they can play a useful part in the accounting regulators current actions. Hence, the main objective of this paper is to identify the specific needs of SMEs’ stakeholders. In order to achieve this we conducted a content analysis and a processing based on economic analysis methods of the comment letters to ED-IFRS for SMEs. The results of the analysis, in correlation with the stakeholder’s theory - the normative approach - and resource dependence theory were then used for identifying and ranking SMEs’ specific users. Finally, knowing the SMEs’ specific stakeholders and their needs has led to the analysis of their inference upon financial reports. This inference was then differentiated into elements of the conceptual framework, recognition and measurement criteria and respectively the information to be disclosed.

Keywords: ED-IFRS for SMEs, comment letters, SMEs’ stakeholders’ salience, SMEs’ stakeholders’ needs

JEL Classification: M41, M47, M16, O52, F00

Suggested Citation:

Deaconu, Adela and Cristina Silvia, Nistor and Popa, Irimie, Analysis of the Stakeholders' Needs and Their Inference Upon Financial Reports of SMEs (April 15, 2009). Journal of International Business and Economics, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1383077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Association of German Chambers of Industry and Commerce Comment on the Exposure Draft of an IFRS for SMEs
Accounting Committee of The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland Comment on the Exposure Draft of an IFRS for SMEs Posted: 2007
J F Casta , B Colasse
Juste valeur -enjeux techniques et politiques, Ed. Economica Posted: 2001
Crossref
G Ceriani , B Frazza
Comment on the Exposure Draft of an IFRS for SMEs Posted: 2007
P M Collier
Stakeholder accountability, Accounting , volume 21 , p. 933 - 54 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,185
RANK
43,985
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capabilities and Governance: The Rebirth of Production in the Theory of Economic Organization

By Richard N. Langlois and Nicolai J. Foss

Entrepreneurship and the Economic Theory of the Firm: Any Gains from Trade?

By Nicolai J. Foss and Peter G. Klein

Capabilities and the Theory of the Firm

By Nicolai J. Foss

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies