Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Survey Relation Between the Asymmetric Information and Dividend Policies at Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE)

Posted: 17 May 2009

Hamidreza Vakilifard

Islamic Azad University (IAU)

Mehdi Alihosseini

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 21, 2009

Abstract

This research shows the relation between Asymmetric Information and Dividend Policies in the accepted companies in the Tehran Stock Exchange of securities. Asymmetric information means the asymmetry of information between investors and financial statement producers . To measure the Asymmetric Information, the earning per share and dividend per share are used during a 6 years period from 2002 to 2007. The Asymmetric Information of companies is divided into 3 parts: less than 20%, between 20-50%, higher than 50%.

Dividend policies of the companies are separated into four policies: Paying a fixed percent of net profit, regular dividend policy, multiple increase policy, and extras dividend. The companies have one of these dividend policies based on definition of each policies and dividend which is paid to the stockholders per year.

Analysis of gathered information and test of hypothesis during 2002-2007 show that there is a significant relation between Asymmetric Information less than 20%, 20-50% and dividend policies; so that there is no significant relation between Asymmetric Information higher than 50% and dividend policies.

Keywords: Asymmetric Information, Dividend Policies, Earning per Share, Dividend per share

Suggested Citation:

Vakilifard, Hamidreza and Alihosseini, Mehdi, A Survey Relation Between the Asymmetric Information and Dividend Policies at Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE) (April 21, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1392599
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,334
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies