Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Yearning for Earnout Certainty

The Tax Specialist, 2008

UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2008-18

28 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2009

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: April 21, 2008

Abstract

In October 2007 the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) issued a draft Taxation Ruling (TR 2007/D10) which indicates the ATO’s current view of the capital gains tax (CGT) implications for vendors and purchasers in business transactions commonly known as earnouts and reverse earnouts. This paper provides an analysis of the approach taken in that draft ruling, particularly by reference to the existing CGT legislative provisions and their interpretation in case law. It compares the ATO approach in this draft ruling with the approach to these sorts of transactions taken in previous rulings, and also considers and compares the tax treatment of such earnouts in comparable overseas jurisdictions.

The paper suggests that the approach adopted in the draft ruling is not always defensible by reference to statute or case law, and that it has failed to deal with important legal implications. In adopting a “deconstructionist” or “separate asset” approach (in contrast to a “look-through” or “underlying asset” approach), combined with a slavish yet not always consistent adherence to the letter of the law, the ATO has presented tax practitioners and their clients with a host of practical problems of interpretation and implementation that did not previously exist. As a result practitioners have been left in a state of considerable uncertainty. The paper suggests potential solutions to these problems, and argues that the final ruling will have to adopt a significantly different position in order to remove this uncertainty.

Keywords: Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles, Yearning for Earnout Certainty (April 21, 2008). The Tax Specialist, 2008, UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2008-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1392575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
I am grateful to Eoghan Gillen and Liam Grimes of KPMG Ireland for providing me with source material for this section
All ER 95), but also Marson v Marriage (54 TC 59)
W Fry
Tax and Legal Considerations when Preparing a Private Company for Sale or Investment Posted: 2003-01-23
W Fry
Tax and Legal Considerations when Preparing a Private Company for Sale or Investment Posted: 2003-01-23
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,894
RANK
490,153
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Law & Justice Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies