Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trading Volume Reaction to the Earnings Reconciliation from IFRS to U.S. GAAP: Further Evidence

Posted: 24 Apr 2009

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Date Written: April 21, 2009

Abstract

The U.S. SEC approved in December 2007 to accept financial statements prepared under IFRS as issued by the IASB without reconciliation to U.S. GAAP for foreign firms. Using a sample of foreign firms that use IFRS and reconcile to U.S. GAAP from 2005 to 2006, we find that earnings reconciliation from IFRS to U.S. GAAP is positively and significantly associated with abnormal trading volume in the U.S. markets around the Form 20-F filing dates. We also document that the trading volume reaction in the U.S. markets is weaker for firms that use IFRS as issued by the IASB than for firms that use other versions of IFRS. Moreover, the trading volume reaction in the U.S. markets exists for firms with low institutional holdings and for first-time IFRS filers but disappears for firms with high institutional holdings and for continuous IFRS filers. Furthermore, we do not find any evidence that earnings reconciliation is significantly associated with abnormal trading volume in the local markets for the full sample and for any partitioned sample. Our evidence is of interest to the SEC when evaluating the effectiveness of its no-reconciliation rule and considering allowing U.S. domestic firms to prepare financial statements under IFRS.

Keywords: earnings reconciliation, IFRS, trading volume reaction

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G15

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Lucy Huajing and Sami, Heibatollah, Trading Volume Reaction to the Earnings Reconciliation from IFRS to U.S. GAAP: Further Evidence (April 21, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1392931
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,586
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies