Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Segmental Disclosure: Evidence from Canada

1 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2009 Last revised: 12 Apr 2017

Fethi Saidi

Qatar University, College of Business and Economics, Department of Accounting and IS

Date Written: December 20, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the association between a segmental disclosure policy and corporate governance structure within Canadian companies reporting under the Canadian accounting standard Section 1701, Segment Disclosure. Canadian firms subject to this standard are found to be reluctant to provide detailed disclosures of their activities and thus are complying with the minimum requirements using the grouping provision offered by the standard. We also found that except for the duality effect, the structure of the board of directors does not have a large effect on the chosen level of segmental disclosure. Furthermore, the ownership structure was found to influence the choice of the level of disclosure regarding the line of businesses data. This study is primarily motivated by the lack of Canadian evidence on the quality of segment disclosure. Moreover, this research is timely because of IASB’s current reevaluation of segment reporting requirements. Therefore, the expected findings of this study may be of interest to standard-setting bodies in countries lacking effective regulation on segmental reporting, to accounting practitioners, and to users of financial statements.

Keywords: segmental disclosure, SFAS 131, CICA 1701, IFRS 8, corporate governance, management approach, line of business reporting.

Suggested Citation:

Saidi, Fethi, Corporate Governance and Segmental Disclosure: Evidence from Canada (December 20, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1392151 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1392151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,549
RANK
864,731
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies