Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of the Fair Value Option Under IAS 39: Effects on the Volatility of Bank Earnings

Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 8 May 2009 Last revised: 11 Jan 2011

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Date Written: January 1, 2010

Abstract

This study examines whether the application of the fair value option (FVO) induces different levels of earnings volatility during the time period from January 2006 until July 2007 using an international sample of 227 banks from 42 countries. Although fair value accounting is generally believed to increase earnings volatility, I find evidence that banks applying the FVO with the intention of reducing accounting mismatches report lower levels of earnings volatility than the control group. The empirical cross-sectional results are robust against outliers and several model modifications, including controls for endogeneity bias. The results remain constant for an extended period of time including the third and fourth quarters of the year 2007, during which time bank earnings were affected substantially by the US subprime crisis. Overall, the findings confirm the IASB’s initial intention on introducing the FVO and should be considered for future standard setting on the accounting for financial instruments.

Keywords: Fair Value Option (FVO), Earnings Volatility, Fair Value Accounting, Banks, IAS 39, Subprime Crisis

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter, Application of the Fair Value Option Under IAS 39: Effects on the Volatility of Bank Earnings (January 1, 2010). Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1392207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
An empirical analysis of CEO risk aversion and propensity of smoothing earnings volatility
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 201 - 235 Posted: 2007
Crossref
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Ronnie Barnes
Earnings Volatility and Market Valuation: An Empirical Investigation
LBS Accounting Subject Area Working Paper No. ACCT019 Pages: 48 Posted: 4 Nov 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,884
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,803
RANK
20,503
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

An Evaluation of FAS 159 Fair Value Option: Evidence from the Banking Industry

By Chang Joon Song

Accounting Choice and the Fair Value Option

By Katherine Guthrie, James H. Irving, ...

Earnings Volatility and Market Valuation: An Empirical Investigation

By Ronnie Barnes

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies