Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Content of Other Comprehensive Income and Net Income: Evidence for Japanese Firms

37 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2009

Keiichi Kubota

Chuo University - Graduate School of Strategic Management

Kazuyuki Suda

Graduate School of Finance, Accounting and Law, Waseda University; Waseda University

Hitoshi Takehara

Graduate School of Business and Finance

Date Written: April 23, 2009

Abstract

The paper investigates information content of net income, other comprehensive income items, and pseudo comprehensive income for Japanese firms. The relative information content test demonstrates net income is one of the most dominant income measures, and the incremental information content test shows other comprehensive income items have significant information content. We find that stock market reactions to other comprehensive income items depend on the degree of firms’ foreign dependency for foreign currency translation adjustments OCI item, and on the magnitude of the ratio of available-for-sale securities to equity for unrealized gains and losses from securities available-for-sale OCI item. We conclude other comprehensive income is useful information, while we cannot rank between comprehensive income and net income.

JEL Classification: M41, M47, M48, G12

Suggested Citation:

Kubota, Keiichi and Suda, Kazuyuki and Suda, Kazuyuki and Takehara, Hitoshi, Information Content of Other Comprehensive Income and Net Income: Evidence for Japanese Firms (April 23, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1393746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1393746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
T Amemiya
Advanced Econometrics Posted: 1985
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: Another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W H Beaver
Perspectives on recent capital market research
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 453 - 474 Posted: 2002
Crossref
G C Biddle , R M Bowen , J S Wallace
Does EVA ○ R beat earnings? Evidence on associations with stock returns and firm value
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 301 - 336 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Begoña Giner Inchausti , Francisca Pardo Pérez
La relevancia valorativa del resultado global frente al resultado neto: una perspectiva europea
Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting / Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , volume 40 , issue 150 , p. 319 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
574
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,911
RANK
109,268
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies