Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enforcement of Accounting Standards in Europe: Capital Market Based Evidence for the Two-Tier Mechanism in Germany

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2009 Last revised: 10 Feb 2012

Joerg-Markus Hitz

University of Tübingen

Jürgen Ernstberger

Technische Universität München

Michael Stich

University of Regensburg

Date Written: October 25, 2011

Abstract

On the background of regulatory initiatives that mandate the establishment of comparable enforcement systems in EU jurisdictions to ascertain consistent and faithful application of IFRS, this paper provides capital market based evidence on investor reactions for one specific institutional setup: the two-tier enforcement system in Germany. In operation since 2005, the German enforcement mechanism consists of a private body, the DPR, which investigates compliance of published financial reports of listed firms and, upon error findings, involves the German securities regulator BaFin, which on a second level enforces disclosure of these findings to establish adverse disclosure (‘name and shame’). For a sample of error findings published in the period 2005-2009, we investigate short- and long-term market reactions to error announcements. Results for abnormal returns, abnormal trading volumes, and abnormal bid-ask spreads indicate that these announcements represent new, negative information and suggest that, despite an enforcement environment that is categorized as weak in the extant literature, the activities of the DPR/BaFin seem to penalize infringing firms and thus provide potential deterrence. Multivariate analyses yield weak evidence that the magnitude of the market value discount is positively associated with the severity of the errors, with the threat of subsequent litigation, and with cases in which firms disagreed with the error findings of the DPR.

Keywords: Enforcement, IFRS, accounting quality, restatements, regulation, Germany

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hitz, Joerg-Markus and Ernstberger, Jürgen and Stich, Michael, Enforcement of Accounting Standards in Europe: Capital Market Based Evidence for the Two-Tier Mechanism in Germany (October 25, 2011). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1395729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Kirsten L. Anderson , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Effect of 10k Restatements on Firm Value, Information Asymmetries, and Investors' Reliance on Earnings
Pages: 30 Posted: 17 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , S Kothari , Robin , A
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 70 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L S Bamber
Unexpected earnings, firm size, and trading volume around quarterly earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 3 , p. 510 - 542 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,303
RANK
14,694
9 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies