Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When No Law is Better Than a Good Law

Review of Finance, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2009

Utpal Bhattacharya

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Finance

Hazem Daouk

Cornell University - School of Applied Economics and Management

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 27, 2009

Abstract

This paper argues, both theoretically and empirically, that sometimes no securities law may be better than a good securities law that is not enforced. The first part of the paper formalizes the sufficient conditions under which this happens for any law. The second part of the paper shows that a specific securities law - the law prohibiting insider trading - may satisfy these conditions, which implies that our theory predicts that it is sometimes better not to have an insider trading law than to have an insider trading law but not enforce it. The third part of the paper takes this prediction to the data. We revisit the panel data set assembled by Bhattacharya and Daouk (2002), who showed that enforcement, not the mere existence, of insider trading laws reduced the cost of equity in a country. We find that the cost of equity actually rises when some countries enact an insider trading law, but do not enforce it.

Keywords: insider trading, cost of capital, emerging markets, securities law, enforcement

JEL Classification: G15, G18, K22, K42

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharya, Utpal and Daouk, Hazem, When No Law is Better Than a Good Law (April 27, 2009). Review of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1395910
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Ackerman , E Van Halteren , Maug
Insider trading legislation and acquisition announcements: do laws matter?, working paper Posted: 2008
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 15 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Crossref
S Bainbridge
Insider trading
Encyclopedia of Law and Economics III Posted: 2000
G Bekaert , C Harvey
Time varying world market integration
Journal of Finance , volume 50 , p. 403 - 444 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
19 Citations
Lindsay M. Tedds , Ryan A. Compton , Christopher C. Nicholls , Daniel Sandler , Caitlin Morrison
Learning to Play by the Disclosure Rules: Accuracy of Insider Reports in Canada, 1996-2010
52 Pages · Posted: 3 Jul 2012 · Last revised: 11 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 125
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Douglas J. Cumming , Wenxuan Hou , Eliza Wu
Exchange Trading Rules, Governance, and Trading Location of Cross-Listed Stocks
European Journal of Finance, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 7 Aug 2015 · Downloads: 119
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John H. Boyd , Hendrik Hakenes , Amanda Heitz
Creditor Rights, Information Sharing, and Borrower Behavior: Theory and Evidence
60 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2016 · Last revised: 24 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 249
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Franklin Allen , Marlene Haas , Eric Nowak , Angel Tengulov
Market Efficiency and Limits to Arbitrage: Evidence from the Volkswagen Short Squeeze
Journal of Financial Economics (Forthcoming) · 100 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 9 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 2,654
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,969
RANK
29,600
19 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Insider Trading Restrictions and Analysts' Incentives to Follow Firms

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

Public and Private Enforcement of Securities Laws: Resource-Based Evidence

By Howell E. Jackson and Mark J. Roe

Do Insider Trading Laws Work?

By Arturo Bris

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies