Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic-Financial Profile of Companies Which Do and Don’t Do Assets Reevaluation

Brazilian Business Review, Vol. 5, No.3, pp. 242-257, September–December 2008

16 Pages Posted: 2 May 2009

Oldair Roberto Giasson

Federal Technological University of Parana (UTFPR)

Eliandro Schvirck

Universidade Tecnologica Federal do Parana

Date Written: April 27, 2009

Abstract

The evaluation of assets through the historical cost presents limitations in its informative power due to the value imbalance, thus the accounting values can be unreal front to the market. An alternative to decrease the impact of the value imbalance on the permanent assets, which are most sensible to this fact, is the evaluation to the current cost. The Brazilian legislation allows to the companies the alternative of assets reevaluation through the value of market, thus, some companies use this procedure and others not. In this context, the present study had as objective to investigate the economic-financial profile of these two groups of companies to verify if significant differences between them exist. We used for this the group of companies which displays its statements in São Paulo Stock Exchange (BOVESPA), totalizing 261 companies. With the intention of evaluating the significance of the existing differences, the non-parametric test of hypotheses Mann Whitney was used. The results point to the existence of significant differences in the profile of the two groups of companies.

Keywords: assets measurement, assets reevaluation, economics indexes, accounting statements

JEL Classification: M40, M47

Suggested Citation:

Giasson, Oldair Roberto and Schvirck, Eliandro, Economic-Financial Profile of Companies Which Do and Don’t Do Assets Reevaluation (April 27, 2009). Brazilian Business Review, Vol. 5, No.3, pp. 242-257, September–December 2008 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1396023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Brasil
Decreto nº 3.000, de 26 de março de 1999. Estabelece critérios para tributação de pessoa jurídica
Brasil
Lei nº 6.404, de 15 de dezembro de 1976. Dispõe sobre as sociedades por ações
Comissão De , Mobiliários
Deliberação 183, de 19 de junho de 1995. Aprova pronunciamento do IBRACON sobre reavaliação de ativos
Conselho , De Contabilidade
Resolução CFC nº 1.004/04. Aprova a NBC T 19.6 -Reavaliação de Ativos
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,485
RANK
713,739
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies