Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Interlocks and Earnings Management: Evidence from Italy

60 Pages Posted: 4 May 2009 Last revised: 13 May 2009

Garen Markarian

HEC - University of Lausanne

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Date Written: April 28, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines financial interlocks between banks and industrial companies, and its relationship to earnings quality and the cost of debt. This issue is especially pertinent given the inherent conflict of interest present between banks and industrial firms, and their poorly understood inter-relationships. By examining a sample of Italian firms over the period 2001-2004, we document that the incidence of bankers on the board of industrial firms is negatively related to earnings management by the relevant industrial firm, suggesting that bankers perform a monitoring/control role that constrains opportunistic behaviour on behalf of management. On the other hand, the incidence of industrial executives on the boards of banks is positively related to earnings management by the industrial firm. This suggests that industrial firm executives who hold a board position in a bank, effectively capture the monitoring process. Additional analysis reveals that bankers also play an opportunistic role as well, protecting their investments when earnings of industrial firms fall, and through charging higher interest rates. Our results are robust to a large number of covariates and alternative statistical specifications including firm fixed effects, three stage least-squares, and OLS. A clear recommendation stemming from this study is that monitoring and lending should be kept separate, in line with the regulatory/litigation environment found in the USA.

Keywords: Financial interlocks, bankers, industrials, earnings quality, Italy

JEL Classification: G34, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Markarian, Garen and Parbonetti, Antonio, Financial Interlocks and Earnings Management: Evidence from Italy (April 28, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1396299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1396299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Aganin , P Volpin
History of corporate ownership in Italy, ECGI-Finance Working paper , volume 17 Posted: 2003
S Ahn , W Choi
The role of bank monitoring in corporate governance: Evidence from borrowers' earnings management behavior
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , p. 425 - 434 Posted: 2009
Crossref
F Barca
On corporate governance in Italy: Issues, facts and agenda, Fondazione ENI Enrico Mattei , p. 10 - 96 Posted: 1996
E Bartov
The timing of asset sales and earnings manipulation
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , p. 840 - 855 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,732
RANK
182,473
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies