Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Audit Reforms Affect the Information Role of Audits? Evidence from the German Market

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 26, No. 3, 2009

Posted: 29 Apr 2009

Joachim Gassen

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Hollis Ashbaugh Skaife

Graduate School of Management, UC-Davis

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 18, 2008

Abstract

We investigate whether audit reforms affect the information role of audits in a country where the audit traditionally serves a statutory reporting function. Specifically, we investigate the audit market effects of audit reforms mandated by the German government in the Act on Control and Transparency of Enterprises. We test for differences in the types of audit reports issued, the information content of first time going-concern audit opinions, and the demand for dominant audit suppliers pre and post the implementation of the Act to draw inferences on whether the audit reforms enhanced the information role of German audits. We find an increase in the frequency of modified audit opinions after the audit objective changed from verifying assets in place to identifying and reporting concern uncertainties and non-compliant financial reporting practices. We also find an increase in the information content of first time going-concern audit reports issued after the audit reforms are implemented. In addition, the results also indicate an increase in the demand for dominant audit suppliers in the post-reform years. Moreover, we document a significant increase in the number of auditor lawsuits after the audit reforms went into effect. Collectively, our results suggest that the audit reforms improved the information role of German audits and that German firms responded to the improvement in audit reporting by increasing their demand for dominant audit suppliers.

Keywords: Audit reforms, Audit opinions, Audit quality, Auditor liability

JEL Classification: L15, L84, M49, O16, K22

Suggested Citation:

Gassen, Joachim and Skaife, Hollis Ashbaugh, Can Audit Reforms Affect the Information Role of Audits? Evidence from the German Market (October 18, 2008). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 26, No. 3, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1396189
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,084
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies