Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Human Resources: A Case Study in Small and Medium Enterprises

Proceedings, Seminar National Industrial Services, Universitas Sultan Ageng Tirtayasa, Cilegon, Banten, Indonesia, pp. 101-114, April 29-30, 2009 (ISBN 978-979-19280-0-7)

12 Pages Posted: 4 May 2009 Last revised: 13 Apr 2014

Samuel P. D. Anantadjaya

IPMI International Business School

Date Written: April 29, 2009

Abstract

The effective utilization and management on intangibilities, mainly on the firm’s human resources, have proven to play a crucial role in ensuring firm’s viability. Knowledge-based firms, which are mostly dominated by information technology firms, including other firms that put forth intellectual capital, or human capital as their business driver toward future advancement, have seen substantial growth, not only on the revenues, but also on the firm’s bottom-line.

Using the perspective of the knowledge-based theory of the firm, this paper attempts to analyze the appropriate measurements on human resources for firm’s survivability in today’s uncertain business environment. Human resources are seen as increasingly important factors to grasp the future market uncertainties and minimizing the organizations’ potential drawbacks.

Preliminary qualitative studies have been undertaken concerning the theory of the firm, including its development, as well as on supply chain management, consumer behavior, and customer satisfaction. This paper attempts to bring out the significance of measurements on the pool of human resources in trying to ensure organizational performance, and the creation of firm’s value.

A cluster sampling method is incorporated in this study to note the characteristics of small and medium enterprises in certain locations. Variables chosen in this study are mainly covered the traditional financial measurements and ratios, such as; sales, expenses, total assets, total liabilities, total equity, total inventory, interest expense, tax expense, growth rate, debt-to-asset, debt-to-equity, return on equity, return on investment, return on capital employed, return on assets, return on sales, and inventory turnover. Additional variables used in this study include; measurements on productivity, effectiveness, and efficiency. Aside from the qualitative analyses, which are based on interviews and field observations, a combination of statistical software packages are utilized as tools toward building quantitative analysis in this study. Researches are conducted by gathering data from primary and secondary sources in service industries in Jakarta, and Bandung. As stated, it is expected that such studies would reveal the significance of measurements on the pool of human resources in trying to ensure organizational performance, and the creation of firm’s value. It is expected that such issues are mostly true for small and medium enterprises, perhaps.

Keywords: measurements, productivity, human resources, financial, ratio, value, performance

JEL Classification: L20, M12, M21, M50, O15

Suggested Citation:

Anantadjaya, Samuel P. D., Measuring Human Resources: A Case Study in Small and Medium Enterprises (April 29, 2009). Proceedings, Seminar National Industrial Services, Universitas Sultan Ageng Tirtayasa, Cilegon, Banten, Indonesia, pp. 101-114, April 29-30, 2009 (ISBN 978-979-19280-0-7), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1397559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Jurusan Teknik Industri
Posted: 2009
S P D Anantadjaya
An Analysis of Effectiveness on the University's Internship Programs in Indonesia: A Case Study at Selected Universities with International Curriculums Posted: 2009
S P D Anantadjaya
Literature Studies on Intangible Assets: From The Perspective of Theory of the Firm
Majalah Ilmiah Maranatha Posted: 2009-07
S P D Anantadjaya
Financial Aspects of HR Scorecard & Business Process Evaluation: An Empirical Study in Retail & Service Industries", proceeding, International Management Symposium , p. 80 - 98 Posted: 2007-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,450
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,905
RANK
30,511
2 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Aspects of HR Scorecard & Business Process Evaluation: An Empirical Study in Retail & Service Industries

By Samuel P. D. Anantadjaya

Comparative Literature Study on the Resource-Based Theory of the Firm and Knowledge-Based Theory of the Firm

By Samuel P. D. Anantadjaya

Boardroom Politics: Implications for Human Resources Management

By Derrick V. Mckoy

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies