Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Containing Tax Avoidance: Anti-Avoidance Strategies

UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2008-40

38 Pages Posted: 1 May 2009

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 22, 2008

Abstract

Traditionally the topic of tax avoidance, or how to contain it, has not been a central focus of the public finance literature. This omission is slightly surprising given that tax avoidance, like tax evasion, has been around as long as tax itself and can have a major impact on so many aspects of public finance. But the lack of any major attention in the literature in the second half of the twentieth century may not be so surprising when one considers that it is only relatively recently that avoidance and evasion have become the major social phenomena that they now are. An army of what Tanzi and Braithwaite have respectively called fiscal and moral termites has been eating away at tax revenue bases throughout the world in an unprecedented fashion over the last thirty or so years, and with increasing vigour in the last decade. It is therefore appropriate that the topic of tax avoidance - and more particularly of how it can be constrained or contained - should be a key aspect when tax reform in the twenty first century is under consideration in this colloquium.

The principal objective of the paper is to identify, examine and evaluate some of the key trends in the responses that national governments and international organisations are currently making to the problems of tax avoidance. The conclusion is that national tax authorities, international tax organisations, and national and supranational legislatures and judiciaries, have at their disposal a large range of anti-avoidance strategies that are designed to deal, and are generally capable of dealing, with the onslaught of these so-called fiscal and moral termites.

Keywords: Taxation, tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles, Containing Tax Avoidance: Anti-Avoidance Strategies (June 22, 2008). UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2008-40, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1397468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
anti-avoidance karate (by which he meant the capacity for taxpayers to turn to their own advantage statutory provisions designed to prevent tax avoidance)
J Waincymer
The Australian Tax Avoidance Experience and Responses: A Critical Review
Tax Avoidance and the Rule of Law Posted: 1997
Lord Walker
Ramsay 25 Years On: Some Reflections on Tax Avoidance Posted: 2004
D Butler
Tax Administration in an International Context -The Study into the Role of Tax Intermediaries
Tax Administration: Safe Harbours and New Horizons, Eighth Atax International Tax Administration Conference Posted: 2008-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
849
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,831
RANK
47,135
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Law & Justice Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies