Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Practicability of Activity – Based Costing System in Hospitality Industry

Journal of Finance and Accounting Research, Department of Accounting, Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Nasarawa State – Nigeria. Vol. 1(1) pg 36 – 49

18 Pages Posted: 1 May 2009 Last revised: 22 Mar 2017

Abdul Adamu

Nasarawa State University

Ismaila Abdullahi Olotu

Nasarawa State University

Date Written: March 30, 2009

Abstract

In this era of intense competition on price and quality, attention is shifting from standardization to customization of products and services. The traditional costing method has become obsolete because various costs especially overheads are incorrectly allocated to products or services. Thus, the objective of this paper is to examine the applicability of ABC in hotel industry in Nigeria using the hotels in Keffi as case study. Questionnaires were administered to Managers and Accountants of the hotels, simple percentages was used in analyzing their responses and it was found that most of the hotels in the study area do not apply ABC system in their costing. It is recommended among others that hotel operators should be educated on the need to have in place an efficient costing system to be in tune with current practices around the globe.

Keywords: Absorption, allocation, and traditional costing system

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M47

Suggested Citation:

Adamu, Abdul and Olotu, Ismaila Abdullahi, The Practicability of Activity – Based Costing System in Hospitality Industry (March 30, 2009). Journal of Finance and Accounting Research, Department of Accounting, Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Nasarawa State – Nigeria. Vol. 1(1) pg 36 – 49 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1397255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1397255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
M Anand , B S Sahay , S Saha
Activity-Based Cost Management Practices in India: An Empirical Study Decision , volume 32 , p. 123 - 152 Posted: 2005
Anderson , M S Young
The Impact of Contextual and Process factors on the Evaluation of Activity-Based Costing Systems Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 24 , issue 7 , p. 525 - 559 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M Bromwich , A Bhimani
Management accounting: Evolution not Revolution London, UK: Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Posted: 1989
A Brown , P Booth , F Giacobbe
Technological and Organizational influences on the Adoption of Activity-Based Costing in Australia
Accounting & Finance , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 205 - 258 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,540
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,509
RANK
12,639
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Developments Around the Activity-Based Costing Method: A State-of-the Art Literature Review

By Gregory Wegmann

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies