Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Progress in Tax Simplification: A Comparison of the United States, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom

FURTHER GLOBAL CHALLENGES IN TAX ADMINISTRATION, McKerchar, M. and M. Walpole, eds., pp.359-375, Fiscal Publications, Birmingham, 2006

UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2009-49

18 Pages Posted: 13 May 2009

Margaret A. McKerchar

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Kristen Meyer

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Stewart Karlinsky

San Jose State University - Donald and Sally Lucas Graduate School of Business

Date Written: August 5, 2008

Abstract

Using a model of the key dimensions and requirements for tax simplification, the paper compares and contrasts the approaches taken and the achievements made in this regard in the United States, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Based on this analysis, it is concluded that without a clear understanding of the process of tax simplification and its requirements, and in particular, the fundamental necessity to begin by developing appropriate tax policy in the broader context of economic reform, little (if any) progress can be made towards tax simplification even where there appears to be real commitment by policymakers.

Keywords: Taxation, tax simplification

Suggested Citation:

McKerchar, Margaret A. and Meyer, Kristen and Karlinsky, Stewart, Making Progress in Tax Simplification: A Comparison of the United States, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom (August 5, 2008). FURTHER GLOBAL CHALLENGES IN TAX ADMINISTRATION, McKerchar, M. and M. Walpole, eds., pp.359-375, Fiscal Publications, Birmingham, 2006, UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2009-49, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1398643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
R Stephens
New Zealand tax reform
Australian Tax Reform in Retrospect and Prospect , p. 65 - 98 Posted: 1989
T Dalsgaard
The tax system in New Zealand: an appraisal and options for change' (Economics Department Working Papers Posted: 2001
Crossref
Economic Survey of New Zealand Posted: 2005
Sandford
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,795
RANK
225,977
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Law & Justice Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies