Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Views Toward Tax Evasion: A Comparative Study of Moldova and Romania

Florida International University Chapman Graduate School of Business Working Paper

The IUP Journal of Public Finance, Vol. VII, Nos. 3 & 4, pp. 7-24, August & November 2009

30 Pages Posted: 8 May 2009

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 3, 2009

Abstract

There was a two-fold purpose in writing this paper. The main purpose was to discover how the populations of Moldova and Romania view tax evasion and whether opinions varied based on demographics. The second purpose, which may be more interesting from a sociological and political perspective, is whether opinions differed by country. What is now Moldova used to be part of Romania before the Soviets incorporated it into the Soviet Union. We wanted to see whether, after two generations of Soviet rule, attitudes toward tax evasion in Moldova had become different from attitudes in Romania. This study incorporates data collected as part of a much larger study on human beliefs and values. Respondents were asked whether cheating on taxes would be justified if they had the opportunity to evade taxes. Respondents were asked to choose a number from 1 to 10, where 1 indicates never justifiable and 10 indicates always justifiable. The present study examined results by gender, age, level of education, and marital status for the populations of Moldova and Romania. The sample size was 2012. The study found that Romanians are more opposed to tax evasion than are Moldovans, overall; gender did not make a difference in either country; Romanians become more opposed to tax evasion as they get older but Moldovans in the 30-49 age group are more opposed to tax evasion than are younger and older people; the most educated group of Moldovans is more opposed to tax evasion than are the other two groups but the middle educated group in Romania is less opposed to tax evasion than either the more or less educated group; married people oppose tax evasion more than do single people in both countries. Although the research is limited to Moldova and Romania, one could extrapolate that attitudes in former Soviet republics might closely mirror those of Moldova and attitudes of former Soviet bloc countries might closely mirror those of Romania, although any such conclusions must be tentative and subject to further research. The study found that certain demographics made a difference while other demographic factors did not, which has implications for the public finance literature in general. This is the first study that has ever been done comparing attitudes toward tax evasion in Moldova and Romania. It also adds to the small body of literature that compares attitudes toward tax evasion based on demographics.

Keywords: tax evasion, Moldova, Romania, ethics, gender, age, education, marital status

JEL Classification: E62, J16, J14, J1, K34, K42, M14, M4, O52, P35

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W., Views Toward Tax Evasion: A Comparative Study of Moldova and Romania (May 3, 2009). Florida International University Chapman Graduate School of Business Working Paper, The IUP Journal of Public Finance, Vol. VII, Nos. 3 & 4, pp. 7-24, August & November 2009 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1398384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
J Alm , B Torgler
Estimating the Determinants of Tax Morale. National Tax Association -Tax Institute of America
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting , p. 269 - 274 Posted: 2004
C Babakus , E T Mitchell , V Schlegelmilch , B
Reactions to Unethical Consumer Behavior across Six Countries
The Journal of Consumer Marketing , volume 21 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 254 - 263 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J H Barnett , M J Karson
Personal Values and Business Decisions: An Exploratory Investigation
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 6 , issue 5 , p. 371 - 382 Posted: 1987
Crossref
W Block
The Justification of Taxation in the Public Finance Literature: A Critique
Journal of Public Finance and Public Choice , volume 3 , p. 141 - 158 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,406
RANK
222,076
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Jewish Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

Christian Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

Three Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies