Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Italian Listed Companies and Compliance to Best Practices: An Empirical Research

Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 8, Issue 1

Posted: 8 May 2009 Last revised: 15 Sep 2010

Giulia Romano

University of Pisa - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: May 4, 2009

Abstract

This study aim to: (1) monitor the evolution of corporate governance practices in Italian listed companies from 2003 to 2005; (2) evaluate the formal and substantial compliance to the Corporate Governance Code; (3) define if listing segment/market (and consequently also capitalization) is significantly related with the adoption of best practices.

The research arose from the analysis of data contained in the “Summary reports”, a questionnaire that Consob, the public authority responsible for regulating the Italian securities market, receive annually from the Board of Auditors, a statutory and mandatory control board typical of the Italian corporate governance system, of Italian listed companies.

We find that nearly every Italian listed company adopts the Corporate Governance Code and its most important best practices. However, we find some contradictory discrepancies. We also find that the adoption of the Corporate Governance Code is significantly related to listing segment/market.

The study contributes to enriching the knowledge of the corporate governance system in Italy that has its own unique features. In Italian listed companies governance best practices have become widespread; nevertheless in some companies still persist critical aspects that support the idea that in some cases there is only a “formal” adhesion to best practices instead of a substantial compliance.

This study show that governance of Italian listed companies has been improved during the last few years in order to reach international standards. However, an enhancement in the substantial compliance to best practices is still needed.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Italian listed companies, Corporate governance code

JEL Classification: M00

Suggested Citation:

Romano, Giulia, Corporate Governance in Italian Listed Companies and Compliance to Best Practices: An Empirical Research (May 4, 2009). Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 8, Issue 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1398745
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies