Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rules Rather than Discretion in Audit Standards: Going-Concern Opinions in Belgium

Accounting Review, Vol. 84, September 2009

45 Pages Posted: 6 May 2009

Joseph V. Carcello

University of Tennessee

Ann Vanstraelen

Maastricht University

Michael Willenborg

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Abstract

We study going-concern (GC) reporting in Belgium to examine the effects associated with a shift toward rules-based audit standards. Beginning in 2000, a major revision in Belgian GC audit standards took effect. Among its changes, auditors must ascertain whether their clients are in compliance with two “financial-juridical criteria” for board of directors’ GC disclosures. In a study of a sample of private Belgian companies, we report two major findings. First, there is a decrease in auditor Type II errors, particularly by non-Big 6/5 auditors for their clients that fail both criteria. Second, there is an increase in Type I errors, again particularly for companies that fail both criteria. We also conduct an ex post analysis of the decrease in Type II errors and the increase in Type I errors. Our findings suggest the standard engenders both favorable and unfavorable effects, the net of which depends on the priorities assigned to the affected parties (creditors, auditors, companies and employees).

Suggested Citation:

Carcello, Joseph V. and Vanstraelen, Ann and Willenborg, Michael, Rules Rather than Discretion in Audit Standards: Going-Concern Opinions in Belgium. Accounting Review, Vol. 84, September 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1399983
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
K Aerts
Tasks and liabilities of engagement partners and auditors Posted: 2002
H Ashbaugh , T Warfield
Audits as a corporate governance mechanism: Evidence from the German audit market
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , J Gassen
Can audit reforms affect the monitoring role of audits? Evidence from the German market. Working paper Posted: 2007
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005-02
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Bidisha Chakrabarty , Pamela C. Moulton , Leonid Pugachev , Xu (Frank) Wang
Catch me if you can: In search of accuracy, scope, and ease of fraud prediction
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming · 52 Pages · Posted: 9 Apr 2019 · Last revised: 9 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 927
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohammad Noor Hisham Osman , Ahmed Razman Abdul Latiff , Zaidi Mat Daud , Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori , Siti Zaidah Turmin
Possible Impact of the Latest International Standard of Auditing 570 on the Rate of Going Concern Opinion Issuance in Malaysia
Journal of Technology Management and Business, Vol 5, No 2, 2018 · 7 Pages · Posted: 23 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 114
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christof Beuselinck , Ferdinand Elfers , Joachim Gassen , Jochen Pierk
Private Firm Accounting: The European Reporting Environment, Data and Research Perspectives
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 52, Accounting and Business Research, https://doi.org/10.1080/00014788.2021.1982670 · 73 Pages · Posted: 18 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 15 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 691
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,695
RANK
175,588
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Market Information and Predictive Accuracy of the Going Concern Opinion

By Kannan Raghunandan and K.r. Subramanyam

The Effect of Bankruptcy Reform on the Number of Corporate Reorganization Proposals

By Timothy C. G. Fisher and Jocelyn Martel

Mandatory Audit Firm Rotation and Audit Quality

By Andrew B. Jackson, Michael Moldrich, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies