Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IFRS and Accounting Quality in the Transitional Economy: The Case of Russia

Posted: 7 May 2009

Alexandra Bagaeva

University of Oulu

Date Written: May 6, 2009

Abstract

Using a sample of Russian listed firms during 2000 through 2006, we examine whether IFRS financial reports of Russian listed firms result in a better accounting quality than the financial reports of Russian listed firms prepared in accordance with Russian accounting Standards (RAS). Our motivation to use the Russian data is due to the following reasons: Russia offers unique and transitional environment and represents a growing market which has a significant impact on the world economy. By using the Russian data we contribute to the research on the impact of IFRS on quality of accounting information internationally. For the purpose of the study we use the methodology suggested by Barth et al. (2008) based on earnings smoothing metrics and managing towards small positive earnings. Furthermore, we investigate value relevance of book value and income under IFRS and RAS. We find that firms using IFRS exhibit higher accounting quality, as they demonstrate less earnings smoothing than RAS firms. We do not find strong evidence that the use of IFRS jointly improves value relevance of book value of equity and net income accounting in listed Russian firms, but we find a partial support of book value of equity value relevance improvements under IFRS.

Keywords: accounting quality, earnings smoothing, value relevance, IFRS, Russia

JEL Classification: P26, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Bagaeva/Middleton, Alexandra, The IFRS and Accounting Quality in the Transitional Economy: The Case of Russia (May 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1400026
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,114
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies