Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives the Comparability Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption?

Review of Accounting Studies 20(1): 242-282, March 2015

61 Pages Posted: 14 May 2009 Last revised: 21 Feb 2015

Stefano Cascino

London School of Economics

Joachim Gassen

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: March 24, 2014

Abstract

We investigate the effects of mandatory IFRS adoption on the comparability of financial accounting information. Using two comparability proxies based on De Franco et al. [2011] and a comparability proxy based on the degree of information transfer, our results suggest that the overall comparability effect of mandatory IFRS adoption is marginal. We hypothesize that firm-level heterogeneity in IFRS compliance explains the limited comparability effect. To test this conjecture, we first hand-collect data on IFRS compliance for a sample of German and Italian firms and find that firm-, region-, and country-level incentives systematically shape IFRS compliance. We then use the identified compliance determinants to explain the variance in the comparability effect of mandatory IFRS adoption and find it to vary systematically with firm-level compliance determinants, suggesting that only firms with high compliance incentives experience substantial increases in comparability. Moreover, we document that firms from countries with tighter reporting enforcement experience larger IFRS comparability effects, and that public firms adopting IFRS become less comparable to local GAAP private firms from the same country.

Keywords: international accounting, IFRS, comparability, compliance, reporting incentives

JEL Classification: M41, G14, F42

Suggested Citation:

Cascino, Stefano and Gassen, Joachim, What Drives the Comparability Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption? (March 24, 2014). Review of Accounting Studies 20(1): 242-282, March 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1402206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1402206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
P Alves , P Pope , S Young
International information transfers: An analysis of European companies Posted: 2007
A S Ahmed , M J Neel , D D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-US Firms' Accounting Standard Choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , T Warfield
Audits as a corporate governance mechanism: Evidence from the German market
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 2 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,442
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,759
RANK
7,804
14 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies