Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reform of Corporate Income Tax on State Level

Posted: 18 May 2009

Natalia Ermasova

SPEA Indiana University; Saratov State University

Date Written: May 12, 2009

Abstract

In proposing reforms for the corporate income taxation, it is necessary to consider the incentives generated by the current system of taxation and the effects that changing those incentives would have on economic behavior. This paper argues that economic development policies and reform of income corporate taxation can significantly affects the growth of a state area, that increases in the growth of a local economy can benefits the overall national economy. There are the examples of tax reforms of corporate income tax in States of North Caroline, Michigan, and international experience in Japan, Luxembourg, and Russia in 2009. This paper shows that this reforms of income corporate taxation and R&D tax credits; State Business Tax Incentive Programs do have significant and positive impacts on the growth of high-technology sector in the states.

Keywords: finance, corporate income tax

JEL Classification: G3, H25

Suggested Citation:

Ermasova, Natalia, Tax Reform of Corporate Income Tax on State Level (May 12, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1403287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1403287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,407
RANK
514,796
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies