Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Reporting on Equity versus Debt Markets: Macroeconomic Evidence from Mandatory IFRS Adoption

51 Pages Posted: 18 May 2009 Last revised: 6 Mar 2012

Messod D. Beneish

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: March 5, 2012

Abstract

This study investigates whether a shock to financial reporting has a differential impact on debt and equity markets. Using macroeconomic data and a pre-post design centered in 2005, we find that IFRS adoption has a significantly greater effect on foreign debt than on foreign equity investment flows. This result is consistent with the notion that debt investors are greater consumers of financial statement information. Further, consistent with research on the effects of IFRS adoption on individual firms, we find that post-adoption increases in foreign equity investment are limited to countries with high (or improving) governance quality. In contrast, we find increases in foreign debt investment flows are not dependent on governance quality. This is consistent with recent research that concludes that negotiated covenants in bond contracts can offset weak investor protection at the country level. Finally, we find that the increase in foreign equity investment derives primarily from the U.S., whereas the increase in foreign debt investment derives from the U.S. and other non-adopting countries. This evidence that increases in foreign investment originate from non-adopting countries rather than other adopting countries suggests that the benefits from IFRS adoption more likely reflect improved financial reporting quality rather than greater comparability.

Keywords: IFRS, Cross Border Investment, Home Bias, Debt

JEL Classification: M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Beneish, Messod Daniel and Miller, Brian P. and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, The Impact of Financial Reporting on Equity versus Debt Markets: Macroeconomic Evidence from Mandatory IFRS Adoption (March 5, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1403451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1403451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Bae , R Stulz , H Tan
A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
International financial reporting standards: Pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research, 36, Special Issue
International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,459
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,628
RANK
13,313
40 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies