Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Self-Serving Behaviour and the Voluntary Disclosure of Capital Market Performance

Accounting Research Journal, Vol. 14, No. 2, pp. 126-137, 2001

Posted: 14 May 2009

Gavin Cassar

INSEAD

Date Written: November 14, 2000

Abstract

Research suggests that where preparers have discretion in reporting, they will report in a self-serving way, both in mandated and voluntary disclosures. This study investigates the self-serving behaviour of preparers of annual reports by examining the voluntary disclosure of share performance graphs in Australian listed company’s annual reports. The results show that better performing firms are more likely to disclose share performance graphs. This ‘selectivity’ combined with the decision to utilize comparisons within these graphs and the choice of comparison used resulted in 87% of the firms performing better than the disclosed comparisons. The implications of preparer discretion in reporting and the incidence of bias observed is discussed.

Keywords: Annual reports, Corporate performance, Graphs, Self-serving behaviour, Voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: G38, M40

Suggested Citation:

Cassar, Gavin, Self-Serving Behaviour and the Voluntary Disclosure of Capital Market Performance (November 14, 2000). Accounting Research Journal, Vol. 14, No. 2, pp. 126-137, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1404865
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,645
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies