Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Sector Transparency and Corporate Accounting Practices in Asia

TRANSFORMING ASIAN GOVERNANCE: RETHINKING ASSUMPTIONS, CHALLENGING PRACTICES, M. Ramesh, S. Fritzen, eds., Routledge, 2008

31 Pages Posted: 17 May 2009 Last revised: 7 Oct 2013

Xun Wu

Division of Social Science and Division of Environment, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology

Abstract

This article examines the impacts of firms' political environment on the quality of their accounting practices. In specific, we hypothesize that the quality of political institutions is among the determinants of firms' decisions regarding accounting practices, and test the hypothesis with a unique cross-country firm-level data set. Our results show that quality of corporate accounting practices is positively related to the quality of political institutions as measured by predictability of rules, laws, and regulations and of their interpretations in implementation. In political environments characterized by opaque public sector, it may be advantageous for firms to adopt shady accounting practices to cope with various risks arising from information asymmetry between government and business.

Keywords: Financial Disclosure, Transparency, Corruption

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Xun, Public Sector Transparency and Corporate Accounting Practices in Asia. TRANSFORMING ASIAN GOVERNANCE: RETHINKING ASSUMPTIONS, CHALLENGING PRACTICES, M. Ramesh, S. Fritzen, eds., Routledge, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1404016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Asian Development Bank (ADB) (2001). Corporate governance and finance in East Asia
J J Archambault , M E Archambault
A multinational test of determinants of corporate disclosure
International Journal of Accounting , volume 38 , p. 173 - 194 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting an disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 83 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries, and implications for acceptance of IAS
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
461,979
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies