Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of KonTraG on Earnings Quality in Germany

31 Pages Posted: 17 May 2009

Hannes Duecker

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 15, 2009

Abstract

German accounting regulations have experienced dramatic changes in the last ten years. One of the most important new laws, which is the Law for Control and Transparency (KonTraG), was enacted in 1998. This law has led to big changes in corporate governance and has improved internal control systems for German firms. The research question behind this paper is whether KonTraG has actually led to an improvement in earnings quality. I find less earnings management, more conservatism and more value relevance after implementation of KonTraG. Furthermore, I find a stronger improvement in earnings quality for small than for large firms and a better development in earnings quality metrics for firms with negative business development than for firms with positive development. Moreover, the data show a systematic link, i.e. positive correlation between firm size and share return, the proxy for business development. Controlling for this systematic link, the better development of earnings quality metrics for small firms and those with a negative business development diminishes.

Keywords: earnings quality, corporate governance, earnings management, conservatism, value relevance, KonTraG

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Duecker, Hannes, The Effects of KonTraG on Earnings Quality in Germany (May 15, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1405245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1405245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang , C Williams
Accounting Quality: International Accounting Standards and US GAAP Posted: 2006-08
Crossref
S Basu
The Conservatism Principle and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings , volume 24 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 1997
Crossref
W H Beaver , R Lambert , D Morse
The information content of security prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 2 , p. 3 - 28 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,437
RANK
205,565
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies