Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Smoothing in Pension Accounting Encourage Equity Investment in Corporate Pension Plans? Evidence from the U.K.

59 Pages Posted: 17 May 2009

Shamin Mashruwala

University of Alberta

Date Written: November 2008

Abstract

I test whether the introduction of a new pension standard (FRS 17) in the U.K., which virtually eliminated the smoothing mechanisms in pension accounting, is associated with a reallocation of assets from equities to bonds in defined benefit pension plans. My findings indicate that sample firms reduced their equity allocation by about 8 percentage points, on average, after the passage of FRS 17. Further, the magnitude of the asset reallocation depends on the financial reporting effect of FRS 17, and is positively associated with: (i) the increase in reported pension underfunding, (ii) the expected future volatility of reported actuarial gains/losses, and (iii) the increase in reported pension expense. The systematic shift away from equities after FRS 17 indicates that the smoothing mechanisms in pension accounting encourage equity investment in pension plans by enabling firms to avoid the financial reporting costs of equity volatility. This paper contributes to the ongoing debate among standard setters about the economic consequences of smoothing in pension accounting.

Keywords: Pension accounting, smoothing, defined benefit pension plans, asset allocation, FRS 17

JEL Classification: M47, M44, G23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mashruwala, Shamin, Does Smoothing in Pension Accounting Encourage Equity Investment in Corporate Pension Plans? Evidence from the U.K. (November 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1405494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1405494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Accounting Standards Board (U.K.). 1988. Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 -Accounting for Pension Costs
Accounting Standards Board (U.K.). 2000. Financial Reporting Standard 17 -Retirement Benefits
A Ahmed , C Takeda
Stock market valuation of gains and losses on commercial banks' investment securities: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 1995
Crossref
E Amir , J Livnat
Multiperiod analysis of adoption motives: The case of SFAS No Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,158
RANK
307,614
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies