Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure and Minority Expropriation: A Study of French Listed Firms

26 Pages Posted: 17 May 2009

Chiraz Ben Ali

Concordia university

Date Written: May 17, 2009

Abstract

In this paper we examine the influence of minority expropriation on disclosure level in France where shareholders are poorly protected and the main agency problem is the one between controlling and minority shareholders (type II conflict) while prior studies have been undertaken in the United States, in a context of ownership dispersion and high investor protection where the main agency conflict opposes managers to shareholders (type I conflict). Using a sample of 81 French firms on the 2001-2004 period, we find a negative relation between disclosure level and both ownership and control concentration and double voting rights shares. These results confirm that type II conflict exacerbates the disclosure problem. Controlling shareholders benefit from superior information which helps them to profit from private benefits at the expense of minority shareholders particularly when they hold voting rights in excess of their cash flow rights; therefore they are likely to reduce disclosure. Our results show also a negative relation between disclosure level and family control which is similar to Ali, Chen et Radhakrishnan (2007) findings on American firms.

Suggested Citation:

Ben Ali, Chiraz, Disclosure and Minority Expropriation: A Study of French Listed Firms (May 17, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1406165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1406165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Ali A Chen T.-Y , Radhakrishnan S
« Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Attig N , F Fong W , Y Gadhoum , H P Lang L
Effects of large shareholding on information asymmetry and stock liquidity , volume 30 , p. 2875 - 2892 Posted: 2006
Crossref
E Barron O , C O Kile , B O&apos;keefe T
MD&A Quality as Measured by the SEC and Analysts' Earnings Forecasts , volume 16 , p. 75 - 109 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Barron O , Kim O , C Lim S , E Stevens D
« Using analysts' forecasts to measure properties of analysts' information environment
Accounting Review , volume 73 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,859
RANK
210,914
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies