Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Quality and Corporate Governance in a Context of Minority Expropriation

39 Pages Posted: 17 May 2009

Chiraz Ben Ali

Concordia university

Date Written: May 17, 2009

Abstract

In this paper we examine a combined set of corporate governance features that influence disclosure quality in a context of minority expropriation due to ownership concentration. This context allows studying a new agency conflict: controlling versus minority shareholders while most of previous studies focus on the conflict between managers and shareholders. We analyse a sample of 86 French firms over the 2004 period. In a market that is characterised by high ownership concentration and poor investor protection, we find a negative association between disclosure quality and family control, double voting shares, and both ownership and control concentration. The results obtained also suggest a positive relationship between disclosure quality and the presence of executive stock options plans, and with the proportion of independent directors in the board as well. These findings shed the light on corporate governance features that enhance incentives for good disclosure under high ownership concentration.

Keywords: Corporate governance, type II agency conflict, minority expropriation, disclosure

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Ben Ali, Chiraz, Disclosure Quality and Corporate Governance in a Context of Minority Expropriation (May 17, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1406149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1406149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ali , S T.-Y. Chen , Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
N Attig , W F Fong , Y Gadhoum , L H P Lang
Effects of large shareholding on information asymmetry and stock liquidity
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 30 , p. 2875 - 2892 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Bassett , P.-S Koh , I Tutticci
The association between employee stock option disclosures and corporate governance: Evidence from an enhanced disclosure regime
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 303 - 322 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
573
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,121
RANK
109,521
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies