Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Corporate Transparency Contribute to Efficient Resource Allocation?

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

70 Pages Posted: 27 May 2009

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Shawn X. Huang

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Raynolde Pereira

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: April 22, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines whether a country's corporate transparency environment, which includes the quality of accounting information, contributes to efficient resource allocation. Based on a cross-country study of 37 manufacturing industries in 37 countries, we provide three pieces of related evidence. First, we find the contemporaneous correlations in industry growth rates across country pairs are higher when there is a greater level of corporate transparency in the country pairs, after controlling for country-level economic and financial development. Second, we find the influence of transparency on these correlations is stronger when country pairs are at similar levels of economic development (GDP). Finally, when we control for the level of transparency explained by a country’s institutions in place, we find that residual transparency (unexplained by country-level factors) is associated with industry-specific growth rates. Taken together, the results are consistent with corporate transparency facilitating the allocation of resources across industry sectors.

Keywords: transparency, resource allocation, growth

JEL Classification: O40, F30, M10, G10

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jere R. and Huang, Shawn X. and Pereira, Raynolde and Khurana, Inder, Does Corporate Transparency Contribute to Efficient Resource Allocation? (April 22, 2009). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1407065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J Robinson
The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation
American Economic Review , volume 91 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J Robinson
Reversal of Fortune: Geography and Institutions in The Making Of The Modern World Income
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , p. 1231 - 1294 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , G Sadka
Is Financial Reporting Shaped by Equity Markets or by Debt Markets? An International Study of Timeliness and Conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Crossref
T Beck , A Demirguc-Kunt , R Levine
A New Database on Financial Development and Structure
World Bank Economic Review , volume 14 , p. 597 - 605 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,634
RANK
130,651
19 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies