Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence - Its Importance to the External Auditor's Role in Banking Regulation and Supervision

Published in the 2006 Conference Proceedings of the IBFR Conference, Costa Rica and Elsevier Journals

25 Pages Posted: 22 May 2009 Last revised: 8 Mar 2018

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: January 1, 2006

Abstract

The role of the external auditor in the supervisory process requires standards such as independence, objectivity and integrity to be achieved. Even though the regulator and external auditor perform similar functions, namely the verification of financial statements, they serve particular interests. The regulator works towards safeguarding financial stability and investor interests. On the other hand, the external auditor serves the private interests of the shareholders of a company. The financial audit remains an important aspect of corporate governance that makes management accountable to shareholders for its stewardship of a company. The external auditor may however, have a commercial interest too. The debate surrounding the role of external auditors focuses in particular on auditor independence. A survey by the magazine Financial Director shows that the fees derived from audit clients in terms of non-audit services are significant in comparison with fees generated through auditing. Accounting firms sometimes engage in a practice called low balling whereby they set audit fees at less than the market rate and make up for the deficit by providing non audit services. As a result, some audit firms have commercial interests to protect too. There is concern that the auditor's interests to protect shareholders of a company and his commercial interests do not conflict with each other. Sufficient measures need to be in place to ensure that the external auditor's independence is not affected. Brussels proposed a new directive for auditors to try to prevent further scandals such as those of Enron and Parmalat. The new directive states that all firms listed on the stock market must have independent audit committees which will recommend an auditor for shareholder approval. It also states that auditors or audit partners must be rotated but does not mention the separation of auditors from consultancy work despite protests that there is a link to compromising the independence of auditors. However this may be because Brussels also shares the view that there is no evidence confirming correlation between levels of non-audit fees and audit failures and that as a result, sufficient safeguards are in place.

This paper aims to consider the importance of auditor independence in the external auditor's role in banking regulation and supervision. In doing so, it also considers factors which may threaten independence and efforts which have been introduced to act as safeguards to the auditor's independence. It will also support the claim that auditor independence is indeed central to the auditor's role in banking regulation and supervision.

Keywords: auditor, independence, regulation, bank

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, Auditor Independence - Its Importance to the External Auditor's Role in Banking Regulation and Supervision (January 1, 2006). Published in the 2006 Conference Proceedings of the IBFR Conference, Costa Rica and Elsevier Journals, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1407177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1407177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
I Ayres , J Braithwaite
Responsive Regulation : Transcending the Deregulation Debate Posted: 1992
V Beattie , S Fearnley , R Brandt
Behind closed doors : What company audit is really about' Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Posted: 2001
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Auditor Independence and Non audit services : A Literature Review' see < Posted: 2002-08
Caparo V Dickman
, p. 1 - 568 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,646
RANK
14,694
4 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Eliminating the Audit Expectations Gap: Reality or Myth?

By Marianne Ojo D Delaney Phd

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies