Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are OECD-Prescribed 'Good Corporate Governance Practices' Really Good in an Emerging Economy?

Asia Pacific Journal of Management, Vol. 28, No. 1, 2011

24 Pages Posted: 25 May 2009 Last revised: 28 Jan 2011

Victor Zitian Chen, PhD, CFA

Amazon

Jing Li

Simon Fraser University

Daniel M. Shapiro

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Policy Analysis Area

Date Written: May 19, 2009

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine whether adopting OECD-prescribed corporate governance principles can solve the major corporate governance problem in an emerging economy - controlling-shareholder expropriation. We argue that none of any "good corporate governance practices" in OECD countries (e.g., an active board of directors, separation of chairperson and CEO, significant presence of outside directors, and a two-tier board) can attenuate the negative effect of controlling-shareholder expropriation on corporate performance for two main reasons. First, "good" practices are mainly designed to resolve conflicts between shareholders and the management but not conflicts between controlling and minority shareholders. Second, board directors are typically not independent of controlling shareholders, and supervisory directors often have low status and weak power in a firm. Using a panel of over 1,100 Chinese listed firms between 2001 and 2003, we find supportive evidence for our arguments. We discuss the implications of our study for public policy and strategies of investors.

Keywords: corporate governance, expropriation, controlling shareholder, minority shareholder, OECD, board of directors, board independence, supervisory board, Asia, emerging economy, China

JEL Classification: M1, M19, G14, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Victor Zitian and Li, Jing and Shapiro, Daniel, Are OECD-Prescribed 'Good Corporate Governance Practices' Really Good in an Emerging Economy? (May 19, 2009). Asia Pacific Journal of Management, Vol. 28, No. 1, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1407278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
112 References
S N Abdullah
Board composition, the CEO duality and performance among Malaysian listed companies
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2004
H Almeida , D Wolfenzon
Should business groups be dismantled? The equilibrium costs of efficient internal capital markets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 144 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Backman
Asian eclipse: Exposing the dark side of business in Asia Posted: 1999
M Backx , M Carney , E Gedajlovic
Public, private and mixed ownership modes and the performance of international airlines
Journal of Air Transport Management , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 213 - 220 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
576
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,773
RANK
108,765
5 Citations
112 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies