Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The External Auditor’s Role in Bank Regulation and Supervision: A Comparative Analysis Between the UK, Germany, Italy and the US (Second/Old Edition)

Forthcoming (Third and Fourth editions) published respectively with VDM/Lambert Academic Publishers and Amazon Books

Posted: 22 May 2009 Last revised: 30 Apr 2014

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: June 1, 2007

Abstract

Up until 1989, there existed “the Big Eight” accountancy firms namely the eight major international accountancy firms, Arthur Young (AY), Ernst & Whinney (EW), Deloitte Haskins & Sells (DHS) ,Touche Ross (TR), Price Waterhouse, Coopers and Lybrand, Arthur Andersen and KPMG. At present, there remain only four; these four comprise of Ernst & Young, Deloitte & Touche, Pricewaterhouse Coopers and KPMG.

Four of the Big Eight accounting firms merged to create two firms in 1989. The four firms consisted of Arthur Young (AY) and Ernst & Whinney (EW), which merged to form Ernst & Young (EY), and Deloitte Haskins & Sells (DHS) and Touche Ross (TR), which merged to form Deloitte & Touche (DT). This resulted in the “Big Six”. The merger between Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand which resulted in Pricewaterhouse Coopers and the Enron debacle which lead to Arthur Andersen being made defunct have resulted in the “the Big Four”. Whilst the existence of the present “Big Four” that is, Pricewaterhouse Coopers, KPMG, Ernst & Young and Deloitte & Touche, occurred mainly as a result of mergers between these accountancy firms, the demise of Arthur Andersen, its role in the collapse of Enron, and the devastating effects on so many lives, cannot be ignored.

This publication considers through a comparative analysis of selected jurisdictions, how the external auditor can assist regulators in carrying out their regulatory and supervisory functions. It also considers how regulators could implement their supervisory and enforcement tools in addressing the issue of audit liability.

Keywords: bank, regulation, supervision, Enron, Financial Crises, Northern Rock, external auditor

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, The External Auditor’s Role in Bank Regulation and Supervision: A Comparative Analysis Between the UK, Germany, Italy and the US (Second/Old Edition) (June 1, 2007). Forthcoming (Third and Fourth editions) published respectively with VDM/Lambert Academic Publishers and Amazon Books, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1407185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1407185
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,345
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

An Investigation of the Impact of Audit Committee Characteristics on the Relative Magnitude of Non-Audit Service Purchases

By Lawrence Abbott, Susan Parker, ...

Deconstructing Sunbeam - Contemporary Issues in Corporate Governance

By Jennifer G. Hill

Compliance of Audit Committee Requirements: A Brief Review of the Practice

By Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori, Shamsher Mohamad, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies