Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Eliminating the Audit Expectations Gap: Reality or Myth?

Journal of Forensic Accounting, Vol. VIII, Nos. 1 & 2, January-December 2007

12 Pages Posted: 22 May 2009 Last revised: 6 Mar 2011

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: April 1, 2006

Abstract

The audit expectations gap is of serious concern to the UK accounting profession with the Department of Trade and Industry proposing a new framework for independent regulation of the accounting profession. However the new Accounting Foundation has had its role placed under review following the Enron collapse and introduction of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. This resulted in responsibility for independent regulation of the accounting profession being transferred to the reconstituted Financial Reporting Council. High profile failure of financial services firms, commencing with the secondary banking crisis in the 1970s, followed by collapses of banks such as Johnson Matthey Bankers (JMB), Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI) and Barings, building societies such as Grays and insurers such as the recent problems at Equitable Life and Independent Insurance have given rise to further debate on the audit expectations gap. The debate surrounding the "expectations gap" often revolves around whether such a gap can be eliminated. Sikka, Puxty, Cooper and Wilmott argue that within a social context, the expectations gap will be difficult to eliminate due to social conflict and the fact that the meaning of social practices is always subject to challenges. It will however, be argued that even though the whole component definition of an audit may be subject to changes and challenges and therefore cannot be objective, elements within the definition of an audit and in particular, the fraud and error detection role of an audit can be relatively objective.

(Paper presented at the 2007 Global Conference on Business and Finance)

Keywords: audit, expectations, gap

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, Eliminating the Audit Expectations Gap: Reality or Myth? (April 1, 2006). Journal of Forensic Accounting, Vol. VIII, Nos. 1 & 2, January-December 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1407199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Brown RE Changing Audit Objectives and Techniques
The Accounting Review , volume 37
R A Chandler , J R Edwards , Anderson M
Changing Perceptions of the Role of the Company Auditor : 1840 -1940
Accounting and Business Research , volume 23 Posted: 1993
Crossref
P Dewing , Russell Po
The Role of Auditors, Reporting Accountants and Skilled Persons in UK Financial Services Supervision Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland Posted: 2005
L Dicksee , Auditing
A Practical Manual for Auditors
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
888
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,287
RANK
61,682
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Auditor Independence - Its Importance to the External Auditor's Role in Banking Regulation and Supervision

By Marianne Ojo D Delaney Phd

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies