Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Users of Financial Statements of Publicly and Non-Publicly Traded Companies Different or Not? An Empirical Study

25 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2009 Last revised: 22 Jun 2009

Vicky Cole

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Diane Breesch

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Joël Branson

Vrije Universiteit Brussel VUB

Date Written: June 5, 2009

Abstract

In more than 100 countries worldwide, publicly traded, or listed companies must prepare their consolidated accounts using International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). For non-publicly traded, or non-listed companies, the situation is less harmonized. The European Union (EU), for example, does not require IFRS for non-listed companies. One of the arguments in favour of this distinct approach is that financial statements of listed and non-listed companies attract different end users. Empirical evidence to back up this assumption is, however, rare. This paper contributes by empirically exploring who the users of the different financial statements are. Our survey of 849 individuals who use financial statements reveals that not only investors and analysts, but also suppliers, competitors, customers and consultants are important user groups. We find some differences between users who consult financial statements of listed or non-listed companies, but we also find some interesting similarities. Almost half of the survey respondents are interested in both listed and non-listed companies and there are only limited differences in the desired information concerning both types of companies. Finally, our analysis shows that an average respondent spends less than 15 minutes per financial statement, does not look at the notes and is only interested in companies located in his own country.

Keywords: IFRS, SME's, users of financial statements

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44

Suggested Citation:

Cole, Vicky and Breesch, Diane and Branson, Joël, Are Users of Financial Statements of Publicly and Non-Publicly Traded Companies Different or Not? An Empirical Study (June 5, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1407566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1407566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
H K J A Baker , Haslem
Information needs of individual investors
The journal of accountancy November , p. 64 - 69 Posted: 1973
R G Barker
The market for information -evidence from finance directors, analysts and fund managers
Accounting and business research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S A R A Bartlett , Chandler
The corporate report and the private shareholder: Lee and Tweedie twenty years on
British accounting review , volume 29 , p. 245 - 61 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A &amp; J Berry , Robertson
Overseas bankers in the UK and their use of information for making lending decisions: changes from 1985
The British accounting review , volume 38 , p. 175 - 191 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,173
RANK
31,244
3 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Diversity: Does it Impact Market Participants?

By Frederick D. S. Choi and Richard M. Levich

The Globalization of Information and Capital Mobility

By William H. Branson and Dwight M. Jaffee

Information Needs of Individual Investors

By H. Kent Baker and John A. Haslem

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies