Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconsidering International Tax Neutrality

Tax Law Review, Vol. 64, P. 99, 2011

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 09-16

31 Pages Posted: 22 May 2009 Last revised: 24 Oct 2014

Michael S. Knoll

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School -- Real Estate Department

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

For decades, U.S. international tax policy has shifted back and forth between territorial-source-exemption taxation and worldwide-residence-credit taxation. The former is generally associated with capital import neutrality (CIN) and the latter with capital export neutrality (CEN). One reason why national tax policy has shifted back and forth between those benchmarks is because it is widely accepted that a tax system cannot simultaneously satisfy both CEN and CIN unless tax rates on capital are harmonized across jurisdictions. In this essay, I argue that the international tax literature contains two different and conflicting definitions for CIN. Under one definition, which goes back at least to Peggy Musgrave’s early writings and which has been adopted by politicians, lawyers and lay readers, CIN is understood to refer to a tax system that was competitively neutral. That idea can be conceptualized as a tax system that does not distort the ownership of capital (ownership neutrality). In the economics literature, ownership neutrality is closely associated with the recent work of Mihir Desai and James Hines, who coined the phrase capital ownership neutrality (CON) to describe a tax system that does not distort the ownership of assets. Under the other definition, which goes back to Thomas Horst and which has been broadly adopted by professional economists, CIN is understood to refer to a tax system that does not distort the consumption - savings choice (savings neutrality). In this essay, I show that the widely accepted and often repeated proof that a tax system cannot simultaneously satisfy both CEN and CIN is based on the assumption that CIN refers to saving neutrality. In contrast, when CIN is interpreted as ownership neutrality, the global adoption of a worldwide tax system simultaneously satisfies both CEN and CIN. However, global adoption of a territorial tax system still cannot simultaneously achieve both CEN and CIN because a territorial tax system violates CEN. Not surprisingly, the use of the term CIN to denote two different types of neutrality - ownership neutrality and savings neutrality - has produced much confusion for those trying to understand, influence and set international tax policy. Accordingly, I recommend that commentators either stop talking about CEN and CIN and talk instead about locational, ownership, and savings neutrality or if they continue to talk about CIN that they clearly specify whether they mean CIN as ownership neutrality or as saving neutrality.

Keywords: foreign tax credit, worldwide taxation, competitiveness, tax competition, foreign direct investment, international taxation, capital export neutrality (CEN), capital import neutrality (CIN), capital ownership neutrality (CON)

JEL Classification: E62, F39, G15, H25, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Knoll, Michael S., Reconsidering International Tax Neutrality (2011). Tax Law Review, Vol. 64, P. 99, 2011, U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 09-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1407198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1407198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
E G See , Victor Fleischer
A Theory of Taxing Sovereign Wealth
N.Y.U. L. Rev , volume 440 Posted: 2009
A Mihir
Desai & Dhammika Dharmapala, Taxing the Bandit Kings , volume 118
L J Yale
Pocket Part , volume 98 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Michael S Knoll
Taxation and the Competitiveness of Sovereign Wealth Funds: Do Taxes Encourage Sovereign Wealth Funds to Invest in the United States?, 82 S
Cal. L. Rev
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Lawrence J. Trautman
Rapid Technological Change and U.S. Entrepreneurial Risk in International Markets: Focus on Data Security, Information Privacy, Bribery and Corruption
49 Capital University Law Review, 67 (2021) · 86 Pages · Posted: 6 Feb 2017 · Last revised: 11 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 760
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Carlo Garbarino
The 'Labyrinth of Impossibility' in the Tax Cases of the European Court of Justice: Is the Comparability Analysis a Way Out?
Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2297470 · 52 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2013 · Downloads: 116
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alexandre C. F. Moura
Concorrência Fiscal Prejudicial: Uma Nova Proposta De World Tax Organization (Harmful Tax Competition: A New Proposal for a World Tax Organization)
58 Pages · Posted: 17 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 254
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shu-Chien Chen
Neutrality as Tax Justice: The Case of Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base under the EU Law
European Studies - The Review of European Law, Economics and Politics, Volume 5 (2018) · 34 Pages · Posted: 12 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 125
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
867
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,240
RANK
63,808
4 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Trade Agreements and Income Taxation: Interactions, Conflicts, and Resolutions

By Paul Mcdaniel

Flunking the ECJ's Tax Discrimination Test

By Ruth Mason

Tax Discrimination and Capital Neutrality

By Ruth Mason

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies