Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Auditors’ Perceptions of the Work Needed in the Audit of Internet-Based Financial Reports in Egypt

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2009

Posted: 20 May 2009

Tariq Hassaneen Ismail

Faculty of Commerce

Date Written: May 20, 2009

Abstract

Purpose - To constitute and test a framework of factors that might affect auditors’ perceptions of the work needed to audit internet-based financial reports (IBFR).

Methodology/Approach - The study conducts a questionnaire on practicing auditors from audit firms in Egypt in the year 2007 to examine their perceptions of the work needed to audit IBFR and factors that might affect their perceptions.

Findings - The study portrays total auditors’ perceptions as a function of four dimensions. First, auditor’ personal-specific characteristics (consisting of three variables); second, audit fieldwork-specific characteristics (containing one variable); third, audit firm-specific characteristics (comprising five variables); and, fourth, environmental-specific characteristics (consisting of four variables). The analysis of empirical study provides evidence of a significant association between auditors’ perceptions of the work needed to audit IBFR and the following factors: auditors’ knowledge of inherent risks of internet reporting, quality systems, audit tenure, legal form of client, client industry group, user needs of financial information and legislation environment.

Research limitations - The scope of the survey is limited to a small number of potential participants. Accounting and auditing standards setting’ environment in Egypt may restrict the generalization of the findings of this study.

Originality/Value - This paper enriches to the literature on internet reporting and audit tasks by exploring factors that might affect auditors’ perceptions of the work needed to audit IBFR. The study provides evidence that supports Egyptian regulators’ initiatives to issue guidelines that cover IBFR, and auditors’ responsibilities and the work needed in the audit of IBFR in electronic business environments in an attempt to improve the integrity of financial reporting.

Keywords: Auditors’ perceptions, Audit tasks, Auditor behavior, Auditor personality type, Audit of Internet-based financial reports, Egyptian audit firms

JEL Classification: M14, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Tariq Hassaneen, Determinants of Auditors’ Perceptions of the Work Needed in the Audit of Internet-Based Financial Reports in Egypt (May 20, 2009). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1407413
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,848
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies