Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limiting Audit Firms' Liability: A Step in the Right Direction? (Proposals for a New Audit Liability Regime Revisited)

Designing Optimal Regulatory Strategies in a Changing Financial Environment Nova Publications 2016

17 Pages Posted: 22 May 2009 Last revised: 14 Dec 2016

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: May 19, 2009

Abstract

This paper considers the responses of six audit firms, to the four options presented by the European Commission in reforming auditors' liability. Whilst agreeing with a limitation in audit firms' liability, it does not consider the means of limitation, as provided by the European Commission in its Recommendation, to be the best means of limiting auditors' liability. In proposing a means whereby not only a limitation of audit firms' liability can be achieved, but also one which would serve as a better means of facilitating harmonisation, the paper makes reference to the variants presented in the author's paper "Proposals For a New Audit Liability Regime", namely a combination of the first and third options. Further, the wide scope permitted by the Commission in leaving it to Member States to decide upon the appropriate method for limiting liability and the means of limiting liability, as the paper will seek to illustrate, do not present the best opportunities in realising the goal of harmonisation.

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, Limiting Audit Firms' Liability: A Step in the Right Direction? (Proposals for a New Audit Liability Regime Revisited) (May 19, 2009). Designing Optimal Regulatory Strategies in a Changing Financial Environment Nova Publications 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1407208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1407208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Maurizio Rija
Responsibility and role of internal and external statutory auditors in extraordinary operations
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 66 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,508
RANK
368,259
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies