Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the External Auditor in the Regulation and Supervision of the UK Banking System

Journal of Corporate Ownership and Control, 2008

20 Pages Posted: 22 May 2009 Last revised: 19 Jan 2011

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: February 22, 2006

Abstract

This paper focuses on how the external auditor can assist the FSA through two of its principal regulatory tools in the FSA's response to risk, namely supervision and enforcement. The external auditor has a vital role as a supervisory tool in reporting certain matters as obliged by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and also in reporting specific matters through annual reports. As an enforcement tool, external auditors play a key role in their functions as skilled persons. Under section 166 of the FSMA, power is conferred on the FSA to mandate a firm of solicitors or accountants/auditors to report to the FSA matters requiring provision of information under section 165 of the FSMA. The reports produced by external auditors as a result of this process are known as skilled person reports. As well as the FSA's use of external auditors to assist it in obtaining information, performing risk analysis, sampling and other tasks during enforcement procedures, the effectiveness of the FSA's use of external auditors in its off-site and on-site systems of supervision can be efficiently assessed through a holistic examination of the way in which the audit profession is regulated. The FSA's enforcement procedures highlight the immense contribution made by external auditors to the supervisory process as demonstrated in the Legal and General Case.

Keywords: external auditor, regulation, audit, standards, independence

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, The Role of the External Auditor in the Regulation and Supervision of the UK Banking System (February 22, 2006). Journal of Corporate Ownership and Control, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1408612
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
517
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,224
RANK
124,535
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Too Big to Fail: Moral Hazard in Auditing and the Need to Restructure the Industry Before it Unravels

By Lawrence A. Cunningham

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies