Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comments on SEC Proposed Rule on 'Roadmap for Potential Use of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by U.S. Issuers'

64 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2009

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: April 17, 2009

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission solicited comments on its proposed roadmap toward requiring U.S. registrants to use International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in preparing their financial reports. The proposal is based on “consideration of the role a single set of high quality accounting standards plays in investor protection and the efficiency and effectiveness of capital formation and allocation.” These comments question the validity of this assumption and point to the disadvantages of a monopoly set of standards. Shifting from the monopoly of the Financial Accounting Standards Board to the International Accounting Standards Board is dominated by a competitive regime in which two or more regulator-approved standard setters compete for royalty revenues from registrants who choose the standards used to report to their stakeholders. Regulatory competition will allow experimentation, comparison, and learning and therefore lead to better financial reporting over time.

Keywords: Accounting standards, internationa, IFRS, Securities and Exchange Commission

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Comments on SEC Proposed Rule on 'Roadmap for Potential Use of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by U.S. Issuers' (April 17, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1408706 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1408706
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Report of the AAA/AAPLG ad hoc committee to assess the supply and demand for accounting PhDs Posted: 2005
American Institute , Cpas
AICPA Council votes to recognize the International Accounting Standards Board as a designated standard setter Posted: 2008-05-18
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Mark H. Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976 Pages: 55 Posted: 11 Apr 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shareholder letter Posted: 2002-02-21
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Zining Li , Qiliang Liu , Gerald J. Lobo , Le Luo
Mandatory Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Earnings Management: Evidence from China
43 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2014 · Downloads: 58
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rafael Marrero Díaz
Desarrollo Histórico De La Contabilidad De Estados Unidos De America Y Su Encuentro Con Las Normas Internacionales De Información Financiera (Historical Development of Accounting in United States of America and Its Encounter with International Financial Reporting Standards)
Revista Global de Negocios, v. 3 (5) p. 29-46, 2015 · 18 Pages · Posted: 1 Feb 2016 · Downloads: 264
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,113
RANK
322,924
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Minding Our Manners: Accounting as Social Norms

By Shyam Sunder

Enforced Standards versus Evolution by General Acceptance: A Comparative Study of E-Commerce Privacy Disclosure and Practice in the U.S. and the U.K.

By Shyam Sunder, Michael S. Maier, ...

Enforced Standards Versus Evolution by General Acceptance: A Comparative Study of E-Commerce Privacy Disclosure and Practice in the U.S. And the U.K.

By Karim Jamal, Michael S. Maier, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies