Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Visibility via Group Presentations

19 Pages Posted: 29 May 2009 Last revised: 3 Jun 2009

Nick Demos

University of Athens

Claire Marston

Heriot-Watt University

Date Written: May 26, 2009

Abstract

Investor relations (IR) is a function that should make a difference to listed companies' communication process to the markets. It is also the strategic corporate activity that promotes the investment case of a listed company and puts its listed stock 'on the radar screen' of the analysts and the fund managers. But which corporate communication tool should the listed companies utilise to inform the market? What can the top management and especially the in-house Investor Relations Officer (IRO) do to increase company visibility? One option is to participate in and communicate through group presentations. This paper investigates the Greek listed firms' efforts towards attaining visibility via group presentations. Visibility should result in better stock liquidity and increased stock price.

Keywords: information asymmetry, corporate discretionary disclosure, investor relations, visibility, group presentations

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Demos, Nick and Marston, Claire L., Firm Visibility via Group Presentations (May 26, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1409997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1409997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Lucy F. Ackert , George Athanassakos
Institutional Investors, Analyst Following, and the January Anomaly
FRB Atlanta Working Paper 98-8 Pages: 21 Posted: 3 Sep 1998
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Almazan , S Banerji , A Demotta
Attracting Attention: Cheap Managerial Talk and Costly Market Monitoring
The Journal of Finance , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , issue 3 , p. 1399 - 1436 Posted: 2008-06
Crossref
E Avgouleas
The new EC financial markets legislation and the emerging regime for capital markets , volume 23 , p. 321 - 361 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Levine , S G Watts
Analyst estimation clusters and Corporate events, part I
Annals of Finance , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 245 - 265 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,000
RANK
459,276
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investor Relations, Firm Visibility, and Investor Following

By Brian J. Bushee and Gregory S. Miller

Talking Up Liquidity: Insider Trading and Investor Relations

By Ming Huang and Harrison G. Hong

An Investigation into the Impact of Investor Relations on the Profitability of Director Share Trading

By Millicent Chang, Patrick Murphy, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies