Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest Deductibility Restrictions - Expecting Too Much from REOP?

Canadian Tax Journal, Vol. 52, No. 4, pp. 1130-1172, 2004

43 Pages Posted: 25 May 2009

Timothy Edgar

Osgoode Hall Law School

Date Written: May 24, 2009

Abstract

This paper reviews the policy case for restrictions on the deduction of interest expense as a necessary background to an assessment of the Department of Finance's recent proposal to establish the reasonable expectation of profit (REOP) standard as a statutory requirement for the recognition of losses. The author argues that the proposed statutory standard is defensible as a response to straddle transactions whereby taxpayers combine a borrowing and an asset acquisition with roughly offsetting expected cash flows. These transactions are profitable solely because of the tax benefit that they generate through the inconsistent tax treatment of the expected cash flows associated with the offsetting positions. In the tax policy context, straddle transactions have no desirable consequential attributes and should not be tolerated.

With some suggested fine-tuning, the department's proposed statutory REOP standard can provide a target-effective response that should deter straddles. However, in addressing non-straddle transactions that are perceived to have consequential atributes comparable to those of straddle transactions, the proposed standard is hopelessly underinclusive (but also overinclusive in some respects). The author suggests that if the policy problem presented by an unrestricted interest expense deduction is considered to extend to a range of non-straddle transactions, deductibility restrictions patterned on the investment interest and passive loss rules in the United States are the only defensible response. However, as he points out, much of the controversy in the literature regarding interest deductibility restrictions focuses on the policy arguments for restrictions in the context of non-straddle transactions. Straddle transactions present a much clearer case for restrictions along the lines of the proposed statutory REOP standard.

Keywords: Interest Deductibility, Tax Shelters, Tax Avoidance, Losses

JEL Classification: G30, H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Edgar, Timothy, Interest Deductibility Restrictions - Expecting Too Much from REOP? (May 24, 2009). Canadian Tax Journal, Vol. 52, No. 4, pp. 1130-1172, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1409398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,757
RANK
663,174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies