Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Sharif's Castle Deductible?: Islam and the Tax Treatment of Mortgage Debt

William & Mary Bill of Rights Journal, Vol. 17, pp. 1139-1169, 2009

Islamic Law and Law of the Muslim World Paper No. 09-69

32 Pages Posted: 25 May 2009

Roberta F. Mann

University of Oregon School of Law

Date Written: May 14, 2009

Abstract

This article examines the tax treatment of Islamic mortgage alternatives and considers the cultural and constitutional implications of the tax treatment of mortgage debt. Islamic law cannot be separated from the religion of Islam, and one of the primary tenets of Islamic law is the prohibition of riba, which is defined by some Islamic jurists as the payment of interest on any loan. Financing institutions, working with Muslim religious leaders, have developed a number of financing instruments that do not violate the prohibition against riba, thus facilitating home ownership for those Muslims who do not feel comfortable with a traditional mortgage. This article considers whether payments under such instruments should qualify for the home mortgage interest deduction and the potential consequences of either permitting or denying a deduction for such payments. I will discuss the constitutional implications of denying a tax deduction and administrative and regulatory options to accommodate tax deduction of payments under Muslim mortgage alternatives. Finally, I conclude that the issue of religious discrimination in the tax treatment of housing should motivate remodeling the home mortgage interest deduction.

Keywords: taxation, religion, Islam

JEL Classification: H24, K34, N20

Suggested Citation:

Mann, Roberta F., Is Sharif's Castle Deductible?: Islam and the Tax Treatment of Mortgage Debt (May 14, 2009). William & Mary Bill of Rights Journal, Vol. 17, pp. 1139-1169, 2009, Islamic Law and Law of the Muslim World Paper No. 09-69, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1409466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
128 References
William &amp; Mary Bill Of
RIGHTS JOURNAL , volume 17
Corp Shape™ Financial
Shaykh Nizam Yaqubi, Shaykh Yusef T. DeLorenzo, and Dr. Ahmed Shleibak reviewed the documents and found them in compliance with shari'a principles and precepts)
SHAPE™ Financial Corp., Fatwa: Regarding the SHAPE Redeemable Lease Process Posted: 2005-07
Maurer See
Crossref
Nomani &amp; Rahnema
Welfare and blessedness is composed of ten parts, nine-tenths of which is attained by trade , volume 56
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,350
RANK
413,954
128 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies