Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Reform of UK Corporate Insolvency Laws: CVAs, the Conservatives and Chapter 11

International Accountant, Vol. 2009, No. 47

6 Pages Posted: 27 May 2009

John Paul Tribe

University of Liverpool

Abstract

In Mr Alistair Darling MP’s budget statement on the 22nd April 2009 he announced that the Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA) procedure is going to be reformed (or at least the subject of a consultation process) so as to extend the small company moratorium provisions to medium and large companies. A moratorium, it is mooted, would therefore be available outside the administration procedure for medium and large sized companies that are in financial distress. This article examines the possible genesis of these reform proposals. The author contends that they can be viewed as a response to the Conservative Party’s reform proposals of July 2008.

Keywords: insolvency, corporate rescue, company voluntary arrangements, reform, chapter 11 bankruptcy, conservative party

Suggested Citation:

Tribe, John Paul, The Reform of UK Corporate Insolvency Laws: CVAs, the Conservatives and Chapter 11. International Accountant, Vol. 2009, No. 47, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1410693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,237
RANK
115,646
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies