Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Reflections of the International Accounting Harmonization on Emerging Economies: Jordan as an Example

The Second conference of the Faculty of Business at the University of Jordan on Critical Issues for Emerging Economies in Today’s Business Environment. April 13-14, 2009 Amman, Jordan

29 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2009

Malek Alsharairi

German Jordanian University (GJU)

Riyadh Jasim Al-Abdullah

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 14, 2009

Abstract

Beyond the phenomenon of international accounting harmonization and its causes, there still a debate on its reflections, implications and consequences, especially in the emerging economies. In addition, there are proponents and opponents for such a topic as it looks like a form of globalization and a rigid standardization. Therefore, it is questionable whether international standards driven by the advanced countries for a social science like accounting can be installed and are optimal for emerging economies with the Jordanian case taken as an example. With this example, it is apparent that there are ambitious steps in applying the economic reform regime on the one hand, however it lacks the large Jordanian multinational companies (MNCs), which are one of the most vocal parties in demanding a cosmopolitan set of accounting standards, on the other hand. The case of Jordan reflects an ideal situation for the use of glocalization as a possible solution for the stagnation in accounting thought and practice influenced by the extreme polarization between the proponents and opponents accounting globalization.

Keywords: accounting, Jordan, international accounting, harmonization, emerging economies, IAS, IFRS, globalization

Suggested Citation:

Alsharairi, Malek Ahmad and Al-Abdullah, Riyadh Jasim, The Reflections of the International Accounting Harmonization on Emerging Economies: Jordan as an Example (April 14, 2009). The Second conference of the Faculty of Business at the University of Jordan on Critical Issues for Emerging Economies in Today’s Business Environment. April 13-14, 2009 Amman, Jordan, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1410084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1410084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Accountancy
IAS and IFRS -what's the difference? Accountancy , volume 132 Posted: 1323
Haitham Al-Abbadi
Compatibility of the Income Tax Laws in Jordan with the International Accounting Standards. Unpublished doctoral dissertation Posted: 2003
Al-Abdullah , J Riyadh
Accounting Globalization: The Complete Absence of Scientific Logic
The Journal of Administrative and Economic Sciences: Faculty of Administration and Economics-Baghdad University , volume 29 , issue 9 , p. 4 - 28 Posted: 2000
M K Al-Ani
The Effect Of Cultural Framework In Financial Reporting SystemIraq As Case Study. Unpublished doctoral dissertation Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,216
RANK
195,180
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Globalization of Professional Accounting: The Big 8 Entering New Zealand

By Rachel F. Baskerville and David Hay

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies