Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
De Nederlandse Female Board Index 2007

35 Pages Posted: 30 May 2009

Mijntje Lückerath-Rovers

Tilburg University / TIAS

Date Written: February 12, 2008

Abstract

The Dutch 'Female Board Index', published by dr. Mijntje Lückerath-Rovers, assistant professor at Erasmus University Rottterdam, provides an overview of female representation on the Boards of Directors and Supervisory Boards of 122 Dutch NV companies listed on Euronext Amsterdam. The companies were classified according to the percentage of women present on their combined Boards of Directors and Supervisory Boards. A variance analysis was subsequently performed based on personal data (characteristics such as the age and nationality of the female directors and supervisors were compared with the same characteristics for their male colleagues). A variance analysis was also made based on company data in order to determine the characteristics of companies that have women on their Boards of Directors and Supervisory Boards compared with companies that do not have similar female representation, and whether a relationship exists between certain company characteristics (such as sector and size) and this proportion of women. The description of the composition of the Boards of Directors and Supervisory Boards is similar to that in the study by Sealy, Singh and Vinnicombe, (2007), 'The Female FTSE Report 2007', which analyzes female representation in 100 companies listed on the FTSE. However, this report on the Dutch 'Female Board Index' also analyzes the differences between male and female supervisors and between companies with or without female representation on their Boards of Directors and/or Supervisory Boards. The various characteristics were analyzed individually without testing any correlation between the variables (causality).

Note: Downloadable document is in Dutch.

Keywords: female directors, corporate governance, board composition

Suggested Citation:

Lückerath-Rovers, Mijntje, De Nederlandse Female Board Index 2007 (February 12, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1411699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1411699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Catalyst
The Bottom Line: Corporate performance and women's representation on boards Posted: 2007
A De Bos , M Lückerath-Rovers En , L M Quadackers
Nationaal Commissarissen Onderzoek 2007. Rifal-series Posted: 2007
A De Bos , M Lückerath-Rovers En , L M Quadackers
Verschillen tussen mannelijke en vrouwelijke commissarissen
Tijdschrift voor Goed Bestuur , volume 2 Posted: 2007-12
A Kleijwegt
Frijns heeft mij teleurgesteld', Oud-minister Sybilla Dekker ontwikkelt alternatieve vrouwencode voor bedrijfsleven
Het Financieel Dagblad , volume 21 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,161
RANK
357,528
4 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies