Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Extensive Comparison of Operating-Lease Capitalisation Approaches and Their Unavoidable Assumptions: Are Further Disclosures Desirable?

40 Pages Posted: 30 May 2009 Last revised: 21 Sep 2009

Mijntje Lückerath-Rovers

Tilburg University / TIAS

Auke de Bos

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law

Date Written: May 29, 2009

Abstract

Previous research of Imhoff, Lipe and Wright (1991), Beattie, Edwards and Goodacre (1998) and others has shown that the capitalisation of operating leases on the balance sheet has a major impact on the accounting ratios. This empirical study expands previous research on two issues. First, we refine the capitalisation methods that have been developed by previous researchers. Second, we expand the focus from the relevance criteria of operating-lease information to the completeness-criterion of decision-making usefulness as defined by the Conceptual Frameworks. The results show that in our dataset of Dutch non-financial listed companies during the period 2000-2004 only a small part did not report operating leases. Of the remaining companies, a major part (minimum 36%) did not comply with the accounting standards. The information is therefore not only incomplete, but also impractical in terms of facilitating a fair comparison with other companies. For the companies reporting operating leases, the operating leases appear to be meaningful and relevant. Also the information is essential when comparing companies. Further we conclude that the information required by the accounting standards is not complete while financial statement analysis is sensitive to assumptions with regard to discount rates, total and remaining lives. Also the different capitalisation approaches lead to significantly different capitalisation results. Based on our results we advise standard setters to require further disclosures in the notes.

Keywords: leasing, disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Lückerath-Rovers, Mijntje and de Bos, Auke, An Extensive Comparison of Operating-Lease Capitalisation Approaches and Their Unavoidable Assumptions: Are Further Disclosures Desirable? (May 29, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1411695 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1411695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
The economic effects on lessees of FASB statement No. 13, Accounting for Leases Posted: 1981
J Ang , P.-P Peterson
The Leasing Puzzle
Journal of Finance , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 1055 - 65 Posted: 1984
Crossref
R K Ashton
Accounting for Finance Leases: A field test
Accounting and Business Research , p. 233 - 238 Posted: 1985
Crossref
P Barnes
The analysis and use of financial ratios: a review article
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 14 , p. 449 - 461 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rolf Uwe Fülbier , Jane Fehr
Bilanzwirksamkeit und -unwirksamkeit von Leasingverhältnissen aus Sicht der empirischen Forschung
Journal für Betriebswirtschaft , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 207 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
700
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,168
RANK
84,642
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies