Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Communication via Responsibility Reporting and Its Effect on Firm Value in Finland

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, Vol 17, No. 2, pp. 96-106, 2010

Posted: 3 Jun 2009 Last revised: 25 Feb 2011

Mikael Niskala

Future 121 Oy

Hannu J. Schadewitz

Turku School of Economics at the University of Turku - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: June 3, 2009

Abstract

In this paper, we have first analyzed the responsibility reporting literature with an emphasis on the linkage between reporting and firm performance and firm valuation. Based on the literature review, we have developed a research question: How does the communication via responsibility reporting affect firm value? The market valuation of listed Finnish firms through a conventional valuation model combined with responsibility reporting is analyzed. The starting point for our valuation was the Ohlson model. We expanded upon the conventional valuation by studying whether communication via responsibility reporting is related to firm valuation. Our research question is linked to the broader academic question of whether earnings worth as an information source has been erased over the last few years. In addition to that, we contribute to the literature that tries to understand the link between corporate social responsibility and firm performance/share performance. Specifically, we focused on responsibility reporting according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and especially on whether the existence of those reports provides a further explanation for firm value.

Our sample was a population type that covered all listed Finnish firms that have adopted GRI. No other responsibility reporting practice was used by listed firms in their responsibility reporting communication during the years 2002–2005. The other necessary information for valuation models was obtained from Thomson Financial Services (commercial database). The applied model supported the conclusion that communication via GRI responsibility reporting is an important explanatory factor for firms’ market value. The result indicates that responsibility reporting is a part of a firm’s communication tools in order to decrease information asymmetry between managers and investors. In other words, GRI responsibility reporting is called for in order to produce a more precise market valuation of a firm.

Keywords: global reporting initiative, responsibility disclosures, firm value, Ohlson model, firm-to-else communication

JEL Classification: M41, M47,

Suggested Citation:

Niskala, Mikael and Schadewitz, Hannu J., Communication via Responsibility Reporting and Its Effect on Firm Value in Finland (June 3, 2009). Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, Vol 17, No. 2, pp. 96-106, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1413647
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,785
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies