Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Financial Reporting Standards and Earnings Quality: The Myth of Voluntary vs. Mandatory Adoption

CEFS Working Paper No. 2009-09

44 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2009 Last revised: 17 Jan 2010

Nina Günther

Technische Universität München - Center for Entrepreneurial and Financial Studies

Bernhard Gegenfurtner

Technische Universität München (TUM)

Christoph Kaserer

Technische Universität München (TUM)

Ann‐Kristin Achleitner

Technische Universität München - Center for Entrepreneurial and Financial Studies

Date Written: June 2, 2009

Abstract

We revisit evidence whether incentives or IFRS drive earnings quality changes, analyzing a large sample of German firms in the period from 1998 to 2008. Consistent with previous studies we find that voluntary and mandatory adopters differ distinctively in terms of essential firm characteristics and that size, leverage, age, bank ownership and ownership concentration influenced the decision to voluntarily adopt IFRS. However, regardless of the decision to voluntarily adopt IFRS, we find that conditional conservatism increased under IFRS for both groups of adopters, while evidence does not suggest an increase in value relevance under IFRS. Results on earnings management in the post-adoption period are mixed. While income smoothing decreases for voluntary but not for mandatory adopters, discretionary accruals only decrease for mandatory but not for voluntary adopters. However, further analyses suggest that the capital market environment and the economic cycle during the adoption period seem to be a more powerful explanation for this evidence than voluntary or mandatory IFRS adoption. Therefore, we conclude that incentives to voluntarily adopt IFRS did not unambiguously dominate accounting standards in determining earnings quality in the case of German firms.

Keywords: IAS regulation, IFRS, corporate ownership structures, insider ownership, incentives, earnings quality

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M43, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Günther, Nina and Gegenfurtner, Bernhard and Kaserer, Christoph and Achleitner, Ann-Kristin, International Financial Reporting Standards and Earnings Quality: The Myth of Voluntary vs. Mandatory Adoption (June 2, 2009). CEFS Working Paper No. 2009-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1413145 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1413145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A S Ahmed , M J Neel , Wang , D D
The Effects of Mandatory Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards on Smoothness, Conservatism and Timeliness of Accounting Earnings
Available at SSRN Posted: 2009-11
A Ali , L Hwang
Country specific factors related to financial reporting and the relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standards choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
13 Citations
Reiko Kashiwazaki , Shun Sato , Fumiko Takeda
Does IFRS Adoption Accelerate M&A? The Consequences of Different Goodwill Accounting in Japan
International Advances in Economic Research , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 399 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Panagiotis Ballas , Alexandros Garefalakis , Christos Lemonakis , Vassiliki Balla
Quality of financial reporting under IFRS and corporate governance influence: Evidence from the Greek banking sector during crisis
Journal of Governance and Regulation , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 8 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Juan Camilo Cardona Montoya , Abel María Cano Morales , Andrés Felipe Gómez Sánchez
Impacto de los estándares internacionales de información financiera en la calidad contable: evidencia desde Latinoamérica y el Caribe
Contaduría y Administración , volume 64 , issue 4 , p. 125 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Alberto Quagli , Maurizio Ricciardi
The IAS 39 October 2008 Amendment as Another Opportunity of Earnings Management: An Analysis of the European Banking Industry
31 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2010 · Downloads: 977
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,391
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,229
RANK
32,477
13 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies