Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of IFRS Transition on Audit and Non-Audit Fees: Evidence from Small and Medium-Sized Listed Companies in Finland

43 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2009

Hannu J. Schadewitz

Turku School of Economics at the University of Turku - Department of Accounting & Finance

Markku J. Vieru

University of Lapland - Faculty of Social Sciences, Multidimensional Tourism Institute

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 2, 2009

Abstract

This study focuses on fees paid to auditors during a major accounting change. Specifically, we analyse how a major accounting change, associated with extra audit risk and work, from local GAAP to IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) affects audit and non-audit fees paid to auditors. Prior research had evidenced that several auditee-specific properties are associated with audit fees. However, there is lack of specific knowledge on how a major accounting change affects audit and, especially, non-audit fees. Our sample comprises Finnish listed firms that adopt IFRS for the first-time. The Finnish data are employed since prior research findings suggest that there are large differences between Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS) and IFRS anticipating extra audit risk and work at the accounting move. Therefore, it is highly likely that extensive supply for audit and non-audit services during the transition from FAS to IFRS would occur. When taking into account several control variables in line with prior research, our analyses based on unique, hand-collected data provides evidence that a company with a high FAS-IFRS disparity is associated with more costly non-audit services during the transition phase than one with low disparity. Furthermore, the results reveal that audit fees are not significantly related to the magnitude of IFRS adjustments. Overall, the research findings inform, among other things, audit firms and their clients about the type and the level of costs incurred during a major accounting change.

Keywords: audit supply, non-audit fees, audit fees, IFRS, transition

JEL Classification: M44, M49, M47

Suggested Citation:

Schadewitz, Hannu J. and Vieru, Markku, Impact of IFRS Transition on Audit and Non-Audit Fees: Evidence from Small and Medium-Sized Listed Companies in Finland (June 2, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1413120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1413120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An empirical investigation of audit fees, nonaudit fees, and audit committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A R Abdel-Khalik
The jointness of audit fees and demand for MAS: A self-selection analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 295 - 322 Posted: 1990
Crossref
C A Adams , P Weetman , E A E Jones , S J Gray
Reducing the burden of US GAAP reconciliations by foreign countries listed in the United States: the key question of materiality
European Accounting Review , volume 8 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Alexander
Legal certainty, European-ness and realpolitik
Accounting in Europe , volume 3 , p. 65 - 80 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,805
RANK
146,022
3 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies