Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No Place to Hide: The Global Crisis in Equity Markets in 2008/09

Journal of International Money and Finance, Vol. 28, No. 8. pp. 1246-1292, December 2009

WBS Finance Group Research Paper No. 124

72 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2009 Last revised: 22 Aug 2010

Söhnke M. Bartram

University of Warwick; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Gordon M. Bodnar

Johns Hopkins University - Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS)

Date Written: March 14, 2009

Abstract

This paper provides a broad analysis of the effect of the current financial crisis on global equity markets and their major components. We also examine the magnitude of the crisis in terms of value destruction in comparison to other market crashes. In brief, upon looking at return performance across an array of regions, countries, and sectors, broad market averages are down approximately 40% on their end of 2006 levels. While deterioration started in most markets in early to mid 2008, the crisis period of mid September to the end of October 2008 is responsible for the lion's share of the collapse with just about all indices falling 30 - 40% in this short period. Financial sectors have taken a bigger hit than non-financials over the period, though they both suffered similarly during the peak of the crisis. Due to larger rises in 2007 the emerging markets drop more in 2008 than developed markets but in large part end up at the same level as the other markets. The global nature of the crisis is also apparent from the high correlations between markets and investment styles that further increased during the crisis. As a result, diversification provided little help to investors when needed most as markets dropped in tandem.

Keywords: Equity market, financial crisis, shareholder value, performance, international finance

JEL Classification: G3, F4, F3

Suggested Citation:

Bartram, Söhnke M. and Bodnar, Gordon M., No Place to Hide: The Global Crisis in Equity Markets in 2008/09 (March 14, 2009). Journal of International Money and Finance, Vol. 28, No. 8. pp. 1246-1292, December 2009, WBS Finance Group Research Paper No. 124, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1413914
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
944
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,012
RANK
56,659
9 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Predictive Regressions

By Robert F. Stambaugh

Consumption, Aggregate Wealth and Expected Stock Returns

By Martin Lettau and Sydney C. Ludvigson

Risks for the Long Run: A Potential Resolution of Asset Pricing Puzzles

By Ravi Bansal and Amir Yaron

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies