Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Corporate Financial Disclosure Timing: The French Empirical Evidence

26 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2009 Last revised: 14 Aug 2009

François Aubert

University of Auvergne Clermont 1

Date Written: August 4, 2009

Abstract

This paper focuses on studying why some managers of listed companies decide to disclose their financial numbers later than others who opt to publish earlier. This research concentrates on both statutory annual financial disclosures in France: the earnings announcements date and the full financial statements release date. The reporting lag is in fact a pivotal issue, since there is increasing demand from investors for relevant up-to-date. Annual summary statistics continue to underline that the reporting delay is shortening under mounting pressure from capital markets. In contrast, reporting lag in the release of financial statements is rising over time. Empirical results provide further insight into the antecedents of reporting lags (DELAYS) that documenting managers can opt for when reporting accounting numbers.

Keywords: annual financial disclosures, reporting lag, delays, earnings announcements, financial statement releases

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M47

Suggested Citation:

Aubert, François, Determinants of Corporate Financial Disclosure Timing: The French Empirical Evidence (August 4, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1414398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1414398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R H Ashtom , P R Graul , J D Newton
Audit delay and the timeliness of corporate reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 657 - 673 Posted: 1989
Crossref
F Aubert
L'impact informationnel des pratiques comptables discrétionnaires sur le marché français des actions , volume 425 Posted: 2005
S Baginski , J Hassell , M Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in US and Canadian markets
Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Bagnoli , W Kross , S Watts
The information in management's expected earnings report date: A day late, a penny short
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 1275 - 1296 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,903
RANK
187,425
4 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies