Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Quality of Accounting Information: The Relation of Content and Logit Betwing Fiscal Board and Independent Auditor Opinion in Brazilian Companies Listed at Bovespa (2006)

Posted: 8 Jun 2009

Antonio Nunes Pereira

University of Sao Paulo - Faculdade de Direito; Universidade Municipal de São Caetano do Sul (USCS); Fucape Business School

Date Written: June 6, 2009

Abstract

The papers aims to relate the governance, fiscal board, and auditor opinions, quality of accounting information, in companies listed in São Paulo's Stock exchange (BOVESPA). Of the exploratory nature and descriptive the article used a sample of 31 (thirty-one) opinions starting from 419 companies. The methodological procedures are guided for the content analysis in the unit modality to establish relations of cause-effect. Addition the content analysis was accomplished for preliminary tests in logistic model between the existence of the fiscal advice, audit committee, big-four and the existence of seem clean. The descriptive and preliminary findings suggest a predominant characteristics of that analyzed companies with non-clean opinions: they do not own fiscal advice, they hire independent audit not big-four, they own mention of negative equity, they own private control and they are involved in claims. Finally, it was possible to establish a statistically significant relation to 5% between existence of fiscal board, audit big-four choice and the occurrence of clean opinion, however, it was not possible to obtain the same evidence for the audit committee.

Note: Downloadable document is in Spanish.

Keywords: corporate governance, quality of accounting information, opinions of external audit, fiscal board, brand of the audit, accounting signalling

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Pereira, Antonio Nunes, Corporate Governance and Quality of Accounting Information: The Relation of Content and Logit Betwing Fiscal Board and Independent Auditor Opinion in Brazilian Companies Listed at Bovespa (2006) (June 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1415522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1415522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
600
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,396
RANK
103,200
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies