Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resources or Power? Implications of Social Networks on Compensation and Firm Performance

Journal of Business, Finance and Accounting, Vol. 39, Issue 3-4: 399-426.

46 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2009 Last revised: 19 Jul 2013

Joanne Horton

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Yuval Millo

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Accounting Department

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Using a sample of 4,278 listed UK firms, we construct a social network of directorship-interlocks that comprises 31,495 directors. We use social capital theory and techniques developed in social network analysis to measure a director’s connectedness and investigate whether this connectedness is associated with their compensation level and their firms overall performance. We find connectedness is positively associated with compensation and with the firm’s future performance. The results do not support the view that executive and outside directors use their connections to rent extract. Rather the company compensates these individuals for the resources these better connections provide to the firm.

Keywords: corporate governance, compensation, board of directors, social networks, performance

JEL Classification: G30, G32, J33, L22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Horton, Joanne and Millo, Yuval and Serafeim, George, Resources or Power? Implications of Social Networks on Compensation and Firm Performance (2012). Journal of Business, Finance and Accounting, Vol. 39, Issue 3-4: 399-426., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1416935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P S Adler , S Kwon
Social capital: Prospects for a New Concept
Academy of Management Review , volume 27 , p. 17 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M P Allen
The Structure of Inter-organizational Elite Cooptation: Interlocking Corporate Directorates
American Sociological Review , volume 39 , p. 393 - 406 Posted: 1974
Crossref
A Barnea , I Guedj
CEO Compensation and Director Networks Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,398
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,722
RANK
32,209
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies