Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Watering the Garden of Government Securities: Measuring the 'Bunching' Effect in Euro Sovereign Bond Markets

Government of the Italian Republic (Italy) - Ministry of Economy and Finance - Department of the Treasury Working Papers Collection

22 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2009

Andrea Coppola

World Bank; University of Rome Tor Vergata - Department of Economics and Law; Ministry of Economy and Finance, Italy

Gustavo Piga

University of Rome

Date Written: June 5, 2008

Abstract

The adoption of a common currency raised the degree of substitution between financial instruments supplied by EU Member States to finance their national debts. In this framework, our paper looks at a particular determinant of liquidity-related spreads in euro-area government bonds. Simultaneous issuance of similar bonds floods the market with paper and could lead to higher funding costs for sovereign borrowers. We test the significance of this problem, over-supplying liquidity due to a bunching of contemporaneous issues, in a government bond market where borrowers do not coordinate their issuance plans. We find that there is a significant relationship between bunching in issues and higher yield spreads. Moreover, in line with the existing literature, we find a negative correlation between liquidity and bond yields.

Keywords: EMU, Government Bond Yields, Liquidity, Calendar of Issuance

JEL Classification: H63, H69

Suggested Citation:

Coppola, Andrea and Coppola, Andrea and Piga, Gustavo, Watering the Garden of Government Securities: Measuring the 'Bunching' Effect in Euro Sovereign Bond Markets (June 5, 2008). Government of the Italian Republic (Italy) - Ministry of Economy and Finance - Department of the Treasury Working Papers Collection, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1417372 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1417372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
M Bagella , A Coppola , R Pacini , G Piga
Euro debt primary market report
Global Research, UniCredit Markets & Investment Banking Posted: 2007
K Bernoth , J Von Hagen , L Schuhknecht
Sovereign risk premia in the European government bond market
Working Paper Series N° , volume 369 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Bruno Biais , Antoine Renucci , Gilles Saint-Paul
Liquidity and the Cost of Funds in the European Treasury Bills Market
Pages: 28 Posted: 11 Apr 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Codogno , C Favero , A Missale
Government bond spreads
Economic Policy , volume 18 , p. 503 - 532 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,060
RANK
687,646
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Sovereign Risk Premia in the European Government Bond Market

By Kerstin Bernoth, Jürgen Von Hagen, ...

Sovereign Risk Premia in the European Bond Market

By Kerstin Bernoth, Ludger Schuknecht, ...

Fiscal Policy Events and Interest Rate Swap Spreads: Evidence from the EU

By António Afonso and Rolf Strauch

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies