Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nigerian Budgeting Process and the Magnitude of Budget Variances

Academy Journal of Defence Studies, Vol. 13, 2006

Posted: 13 Jun 2009

Prof. Suleiman A. S. Aruwa

Nasarawa State University

Date Written: July 30, 2006

Abstract

This paper examines the problems of budgeting process and fiscal management as signified in the magnitude of budget variances and the driving external factor of oil revenue contributions. The federal government expenditures and finance-ability remain major fiscal challenges in economic management. Documentary evidence and data sources were used. Descriptive statistics and correlation analysis form the basis of data analysis. The decisions relating to the scale of government expenditures have also been related to internally generated tax revenues and mainly by the impacts of oil revenues. This paper has shown the relative impact of revenue and expenditure mismatch on fiscal management, emanating from faulty budgeting processes especially inadequate public finance data for revenue and expenditure forecasting, for an effective appropriation process. The recommendation that emerge is that effective budgeting and government grip of budget deficits and surpluses is inevitable in aligning with investment planning as well as appropriate financing of priority projects. Efficient allocation and management of off-budget receipts at both federal and states levels should be legally mandated.

Keywords: Budgeting, Variances, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Aruwa, Suleiman A. S., Nigerian Budgeting Process and the Magnitude of Budget Variances (July 30, 2006). Academy Journal of Defence Studies, Vol. 13, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1418683
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,163
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies