Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (SME) Financing in the Nigerian Capital Market

Bayero University Kano National Conference Proceedings on ‘Business Performance, Survival and Development in Nigeria, 2005

Posted: 13 Jun 2009

Prof. Suleiman A. S. Aruwa

Nasarawa State University

Date Written: July 30, 2005

Abstract

Financing a combination of SMEs’ capital may comprise personal savings, equity shares and debt. SMEs employ one type of capital or a combination of the capital sources. The optimum capital structure strikes a balance between risk and return. It is the best combination of equity and debt a firm should employ. Data was gathered from documentary evidence and questionnaire with simple frequency and percentage analysis. The SMEs access to the Nigerian Capital Market to source for funds is minimal and underutilized. In spite of the reduced registration conditions, most SMEs have not taken have not taken up financing opportunities in the Second-Tier Securities Market (SSM). This paper identified such limiting factors like small scale operations, rigidity of company incorporation and share quotations, fear of dilution of control and fear of loss of ownership, unawareness of the potentials of the capital market, inadequacies in SSM listing requirement and divergent government SME financing policies. The Nigerian Stock Exchange has to create awareness, further relax registration conditions as it relates to the minimum number of shareholders, as well as increasing the limits of amounts that can be raised in view of high cost of technology SMEs. The SMIEIS be reinvigorated through the SSM and the financing policies should be harmonized with existing best practice in other countries.

Keywords: SME, Capital Market, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Aruwa, Suleiman A. S., Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (SME) Financing in the Nigerian Capital Market (July 30, 2005). Bayero University Kano National Conference Proceedings on ‘Business Performance, Survival and Development in Nigeria, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1418672
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,702
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies