Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of the Principal Top Management Styles in the Emphasis of Multiple Forms of Controls

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 108-127, 2010

Posted: 13 Jun 2009 Last revised: 17 Jan 2010

Lili-Anne Kihn

University of Tampere, Faculty of Management

Date Written: June 12, 2009

Abstract

This study offers empirical evidence of the principal top management styles in the emphasis of multiple forms of controls. In particular, it analyzed the principal styles in how top managers emphasize financial, nonfinancial and selected behavioral (action accountability) controls in the performance evaluations of foreign subsidiary managers and whether the different styles result in performance differences. Hypotheses were tested, using cluster analysis and analysis of variance, with documentary and survey data collected from business unit top managers of multinational companies headquartered in Finland. The results identify, describe and profile a total of six principal styles in the emphasis of financial, nonfinancial and behavioral controls. Overall, the results demonstrate that managers differ significantly in the way they emphasize controls and that all styles are not as effective in enhancing performance.

JEL Classification: G34, M40, M41, M46, M47

Suggested Citation:

Kihn, Lili-Anne, An Empirical Investigation of the Principal Top Management Styles in the Emphasis of Multiple Forms of Controls (June 12, 2009). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 108-127, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1418686
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies