Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Administration and Problems of Value Added Tax in Nigeria

Finance and Accounting Research Monitor, Vol. 2. No. 2, 2008

Posted: 15 Jun 2009

Prof. Suleiman A. S. Aruwa

Nasarawa State University

Date Written: June 30, 2008

Abstract

This study analyses the relevance and the problems of Value Added Tax (VAT) in Nigeria. Three research questions were formulated for the study. A survey of VATable Nigerian organizations, FIRS staff and the publics was conducted to gain insights into the way VAT is administered, its relevance in revenue generation, savings and consumption of consumers and the problems hindering its efficiency. Both secondary and primary data were used and descriptive statistics as tool for analysis. The survey shows that a majority of the FIRS staff perceive that they are not adequately equipped technically and administratively to handle VAT operations, VATable organizations have inappropriate knowledge of VAT operations, the government at the three tiers in Nigeria have raised substantial revenue from VAT but it is presently perceived as been underutilized due to high rate of tax evasion, lack of record keeping by business enterprises, use of unqualified FIRS staff and low VAT education is found among the VATable organizations and the public. It was found that these organizations treat VAT as cost contrary to expectations. Evidence from the way VAT revenue is being shared among the three levels of government in Nigeria suggests that this revenue is being re-injected into the economy through public expenditure. Governments should consider strategies for securing appropriate treatment of VAT by the VATable organizations while taking steps to ensure that the VAT revenue is targeted at sectors most likely to ameliorate the inadvertent adverse effects of VAT on consumer welfare, production, employment and income.

Suggested Citation:

Aruwa, Suleiman A. S., The Administration and Problems of Value Added Tax in Nigeria (June 30, 2008). Finance and Accounting Research Monitor, Vol. 2. No. 2, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1418661
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,203
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies