Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyzing Brokers’ Expertise: Did Analysts Fully Anticipate the Impact of IFRS Adoption on Earnings? The European Evidence

26 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2009

François Aubert

University of Auvergne Clermont 1

Pascal Dumontier

University of Grenoble

Date Written: June 15, 2009

Abstract

Since 2005, all European Union listed firms must comply with IFRS. The resulting mandatory changes in accounting methods have substantially affected reported earnings predictions. Using the FactSet/JCF database that collects 2005 earnings forecasts under both IFRS and local GAAP for European listed companies, this research documents to what extent financial analysts were able to anticipate the impact of the new accounting rules on earnings determination. Results indicate that analysts were not able to efficiently anticipate the consequences of the IFRS adoption on earnings, forecast errors being significantly associated with differences in earnings resulting from the compliance with the new financial reporting standards.

JEL Classification: M44, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Aubert, François and Dumontier, Pascal, Analyzing Brokers’ Expertise: Did Analysts Fully Anticipate the Impact of IFRS Adoption on Earnings? The European Evidence (June 15, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M T Bradshaw , S A Richardson , R G Sloan
Do analysts and auditors use information in accruals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 45 - 74 Posted: 2001
Crossref
L Brown
A temporal analysis of earnings surprises: profits versus losses
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Clement
Analyst forecast accuracy: do ability, resources, and portfolio complexity matter?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 27 , p. 285 - 303 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,435
RANK
162,121
4 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies