Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Finance and Growth: Microeconometric Evidence on Chinese Firms

University of Nottingham, GEP Research Paper 2008/37

39 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2009

Alessandra Guariglia

Durham University - Durham Business School

Xiaoxuan Li

Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) - Institute of Policy and Management

Lina Song

Nottingham University Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 15, 2008

Abstract

Does the availability of internal finance constrain firm growth? Or does it foster it? To answer these questions, we use a panel of 407,096 Chinese firms over the period 2000-2005. We estimate dynamic assets growth equations augmented with cash flow, and find that the growth of state owned enterprises is not affected by cash flow, while that of privately owned firms is most affected. Considering that they represent 62% of the observations in our sample and that, in spite of being typically discriminated against by financial institutions, private firms have experienced sensational growth rates, our results suggest that internal finance has fostered rather than constrained their growth.

Keywords: assets growth, cash flow, financial constraints

JEL Classification: D92, G15, G31

Suggested Citation:

Guariglia, Alessandra and Li, Xiaoxuan and Song, Lina, Internal Finance and Growth: Microeconometric Evidence on Chinese Firms (November 15, 2008). University of Nottingham, GEP Research Paper 2008/37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
F Abraham , J Konings , V Sloottmaekers
FDI spillovers in the Chinese manufacturing sector: evidence of firm heterogeneity Posted: 2007
Franklin Allen , Rajesh Chakrabarti , Sankar De , Jun Qian , Meijun Qian
The Financial System Capacities of India and China
Pages: 48 Posted: 18 Mar 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
China's financial system: past, present, and future Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,501
RANK
195,815
4 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

FDI and Credit Constraints: Firm Level Evidence in China

By Jérôme Héricourt and Sandra Poncet

Financial Intermediation and Growth: Chinese Style

By Genevieve Boyreau-debray

The Impact of Banks and Non-Bank Financial Institutions on Local Economic Growth in China

By Hans Degryse and Xiaoqiang Cheng

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies