Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Kobe Forum Perspectives on Japanese Accounting and Management Research

16 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2009

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: March 12, 2009

Abstract

The seven papers presented at the 2008 Kobe Forum report important and interesting results from Japanese research on accounting and management. In Japan, the focus of accounting on helping management operate the firm efficiently has yielded great economies. The single-minded focus of the IFRS, based on investor and security market orientation of U.S.-U.K. accounting does not serve the Japanese economy well. The dysfunctional consequences of the attempts to force convergence of Japanese financial reporting to IFRS can be seen in the weaknesses of the so-called fair value accounting and in accounting for business combinations. Probabilistic purchase method of accounting for business combinations holds a promising alternative. Measurement of performance of corporations can be advantageously expanded beyond the concerns of shareholder to include the interests of other stakeholders in the corporation. The technological success of Japanese manufacturers in the recent decades has been accompanied by strong focus on value creation but inadequate attention to capturing the value for the shareholders. Finally, experimental research on laboratory games with Japanese subjects tends to debunk the theories about national traits so popular in armchair analyses of economic performance and behavior.

Keywords: Japanese accounting research, IFRS, Japanese management

JEL Classification: F23, M10, M41, N25

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Kobe Forum Perspectives on Japanese Accounting and Management Research (March 12, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1422649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1422649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,979
RANK
317,158
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies