Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Response of Indian State Owned Enterprises to Environmental Shifts

Posted: 5 Jan 2011 Last revised: 5 Jan 2011

Shubhabrata Basu

Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad; Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Indore

Date Written: June 19, 2009

Abstract

Researches on strategic response of firms to environmental shifts have been conducted, mostly with respect to the private corporations and, predominantly in the North American and European Context. This apparent inclination of researchers for the private organizations is possibly to control for the overarching influence of the government – a sentiment nurtured by many researchers in strategic management and industrial organization economics. A few studies, especially in the United Kingdom, that did involve state owned enterprises found results that were not clear and concise. Researchers who endeavoured those studies reported that the lack of clarity, in the results, was due to ownership pattern and national contexts that influenced the strategic choices and which in turn influenced the responses of firms facing environmental shifts. Therefore firm’s strategic response, when influenced by ownership pattern and national context, is likely to yield results that would be different from those reported in the literature. This is a research gap and hence an opportunity that’s worth exploring. The present research fits into this gap and focuses on the strategic response of Indian (national context) state owned enterprises (ownership pattern) to environmental shifts.

The present study is a firm level analysis on the strategic response, of a selected set of four state owned enterprises (SOEs), to environmental shifts post deregulation and economic liberalization of India in 1991. The samples are drawn from mutually exclusive industries and collectively they exhaust both the manufacturing and the services sectors. In this study, four categories of environmental shifts are considered namely: 1. Shifts in the Regulatory Environment 2. Shifts in the Competitive Environment 3. Shifts in the Technological Environment 4. Shifts in the firm’s Internal Environment

The strategic response process is viewed using the three lenses of managerial decision making process, the creation and utilization of organizational slacks and the usage of the intellectual capital of the firm.

The data are collected from both primary and secondary sources and spans the period from 1991 to October 2008. An exploratory and longitudinal case research method is adopted for the four selected SOEs. The contextual and process based nature of the study and the contemporaneous nature of the phenomenon influenced the choice of the case research method. Major data sources are in-depth interviews with senior executives, mainly from strategic planning or equivalent departments as well as various documents made available to the researcher by the firm executives. Primary data is complemented by secondary data sources from press and media and data bases like CMIE and Capitaline as well as analyst reports.

A two level data analysis is done in the present study. In the first level, a within-case analysis is done using each firm on a standalone basis. The emergent constructs of environmental shifts and strategic response are identified on a case basis. Also the contents and processes of the strategic response for each firm are explicated. In the second level, a cross-case analysis is done, by analyzing the four cases simultaneously, to identify the common elements of environmental shift construct and those of strategic response. The different dimensions of strategic response construct to the four categories of environmental shifts are interpreted and explained using inductive reasoning, propositions are forwarded and a framework of strategic response of SOEs to environmental shift is proposed.

Some of the major outcomes or findings of the study are: 1. Shifts in the regulatory environment induced Indian State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) to restructure their business portfolio resulting in the reconfiguration of their value chain that enabled them to undertake product market diversification. The product market diversification is effected through the creation of three types of values in the SOE deliverables namely, value enhancement, value extension and value substitution. A closer observation on the product market diversification yielded that it is also contingent upon the regulatory necessities to implement government policies.

2. Equity divestment and market discipline brought about by FII holdings in SOEs appear to enable the SOEs to obtain higher incentives and cooperation from the government in government induced/influenced diversification. Government cooperation can take the form of granting greater financial autonomy like having higher retained earnings than dividend payout.

3. Indian SOEs respond to shifts in competitive environment through creatively copying, customizing and scaling up the competing deliverables leading to the commoditization of the same. This type of strategic response reduces the rent seeking potential of the competitors and consequently reduces the intensity of competition.

4. Further, Indian SOEs also respond to shifts in competitive environment through protection of existing market by mutually cooperating and integrating with their value chain partners as well as diversifying to new markets/segments through the implicit cooperation of the government/regulators.

5. Workforce rationalization exercises within the Indian SOEs appear to augment trust and confidence within the remnant workforce which positively affect their skills and competencies.

Some implications of the study are examined for the three likely audiences – the academia, the practising managers and the public policy makers in the emerging economies in general and India in particular. The study concluded with its future directions based on the outcomes.

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Shubhabrata and Basu, Shubhabrata, Strategic Response of Indian State Owned Enterprises to Environmental Shifts (June 19, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1422622
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,574
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies