Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Financial Crises on the Value Relevance of Earnings and Book Value: 1994 and 2001 Crises in Turkey

Iktisat İsletme ve Finans, Vol. 25, No. 288, March 2010

Posted: 14 Jul 2009 Last revised: 17 Mar 2010

Serdar Ozkan

American University of the Middle East

Cagnur Kaytmaz Balsari

Dokuz Eylul University

Date Written: January 10, 2010

Abstract

This study examines the change in the value relevance of earnings and book value between years 1992-2007 for non-financial firms listed in Istanbul Stock Exchange. During this period Turkey experienced the economic crises of 1994 and 2001, each with different characteristics. The previous literature shows that both under firm level and macro level economic pressure, the value relevance of book value increase whereas results on earnings are inconclusive. The same financial crises can influence value relevance differently in separate countries depending on country specific factors. Similarly, it can be expected that different economic crises can affect the value relevance differently in the same country depending on the type or severity of the financial crisis. The results show that the impacts of the 2001 and 1994 crises on the value relevance of earnings are different, and this may be due to the different characteristics of these two crises.

Keywords: Financial crises, value relevance, Turkey, ISE

JEL Classification: G01, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ozkan, Serdar and Kaytmaz Balsari, Cagnur, Impact of Financial Crises on the Value Relevance of Earnings and Book Value: 1994 and 2001 Crises in Turkey (January 10, 2010). Iktisat İsletme ve Finans, Vol. 25, No. 288, March 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1423092
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies