Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EDACC:01 – A Conceptual Model of European Digital Accounting

Proceedings of AMIS 2009, Bucharest

7 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2009

Alexandru Tugui

Al. I. Cuza University

Iuliana Eugenia Georgescu

Al. I. Cuza University

Date Written: June 21, 2009

Abstract

Many researchers in the field of accounting deal with the problem of ensuring that the accounting information is good quality. There are, in this respect, international standards of quality assurance for products and services, there are international standards in the field of financial reporting for the purposes of ensuring a high quality level in the field of financial and accounting information, at national, European and international level. Digital accounting is the accounting of a digital enterprise. This study is meant to capture the requirements for an integrated model of digital accounting, that we called European Digital ACCounting (EDACC:01) and that could be considered at the level of the European states.

Keywords: digital accounting, EDACC:01, quality, enterprise

JEL Classification: M1, M2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Tugui, Alexandru and Iuliana Eugenia, Georgescu, EDACC:01 – A Conceptual Model of European Digital Accounting (June 21, 2009). Proceedings of AMIS 2009, Bucharest, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1423490 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1423490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
B Bergeron
Dark Age II: When the Digital Date Die Posted: 2002
C Brindley , Ritchie , B
Reducing Risk in Information Search Activities
Raisinghani, M. Business Intelligence in the Digital Economy. Opportunities, Limitations, and Risk Posted: 2004
Crossref
E Cornish
Futuring. The Exploration of the Future
World Future Society Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Deshmukh
Digital Accounting Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,189
RANK
190,354
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies