Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of Internationally Recognized Accounting Standards: Implications for the Credit Markets

Simon School Working Paper No. FR 09-12

49 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2009 Last revised: 22 Sep 2009

Joanna S. Wu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Ivy Zhang

University of California, Riverside

Date Written: June 24, 2009

Abstract

We examine whether the adoption of internationally recognized accounting standards is associated with a greater sensitivity of credit ratings to accounting information. Our results suggest that voluntary adoptions of IFRS/U.S.GAAP come with significant increases in the sensitivity of credit ratings to the accounting default factor. No such evidence is found for mandatory adoptions except in countries with stronger rules of law.

Keywords: Internationally recognized accounting standards, IFRS, credit markets, credit relevance

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G33, K20

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Joanna S. and Zhang, Ivy, The Adoption of Internationally Recognized Accounting Standards: Implications for the Credit Markets (June 24, 2009). Simon School Working Paper No. FR 09-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1425209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1425209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standard choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
613
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,159
RANK
100,411
18 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies