Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pitfalls in Estimating the Returns to Corporate R&D Using Accounting Data

CDM Working Papers Series CEMI-WORKING PAPER-2007-003

13 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2009

Dominique Foray

Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne - Management of Technology and Entrepreneurship Institute (MTEI)

Bronwyn H. Hall

University of California at Berkeley; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); Max Planck Institute for Innovation and Competition

Jacques Mairesse

National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies (INSEE) - Center for Research in Economics and Statistics (CREST); Maastricht University - United Nations and Maastricht Economic Research Institute on Innovation and Technology (UNU-MERIT); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: September 1, 2007

Abstract

Does R&D have an impact on firm growth, profits, and value? To most observers, the obvious answer is yes. However, the recent report by Booz-Allen-Hamilton (BAH 2006) seems to conclude that the share of spending devoted to research has no relationship to the economic performance of an enterprise, and offers support to the view that it is possible to compete successfully in the modern economy without investing in R&D. This issue is an important one because the large corporations they considered are responsible for the vast majority of private R&D spending in developed economies, and are therefore important actors in achieving the Lisbon agenda. Challenged by the results and recommendations of the BAH report, in this paper we assess some of the pitfalls to be avoided in using accounting data to estimate corporate R&D returns and illustrate a proper use of such data. We first offer a critique of important aspects of the methodology and of some of the main conclusions in the BAH report. Using similar data and a comparable approach, we then present our own estimates of the impact of R&D on the growth, profitability, and market value of public corporations, and contrast our interpretations and conclusions with that of the report.

Keywords: measurement, evaluation, impact, corporate R&D

Suggested Citation:

Foray, Dominique and Hall, Bronwyn H. and Mairesse, Jacques, Pitfalls in Estimating the Returns to Corporate R&D Using Accounting Data (September 1, 2007). CDM Working Papers Series CEMI-WORKING PAPER-2007-003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1427754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1427754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Booz-Allen-Hamilton
Smart Spenders: The Global Innovation 1000 Posted: 2006
Denrell
Harvard Business Review Posted: 2005
Z Griliches , B H Hall , A Pakes
R&D, Patents, and Market Value Revisited: Is There a Second (Technological Opportunity) Factor?
Economics of Innovation and New Technology , volume 1 , p. 183 - 202 Posted: 1991
Crossref
A Pakes
On Patents, R&D, and the Stock Market Rate of Return
Journal of Political Economy , volume 93 , p. 390 - 409 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
George W. Blazenko , Andrey D. Pavlov
Value maximizing hurdle rates for R&D investment
Economics of Innovation and New Technology , volume 19 , issue 8 , p. 693 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Martin Falk
Quantile estimates of the impact of R&D intensity on firm performance
Small Business Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 19 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Bronwyn H. Hall , Jacques Mairesse , Pierre Mohnen
Measuring the Returns to R&D
NBER Working Paper No. w15622 · 61 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2010 · Last revised: 10 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 225
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,296
RANK
434,536
3 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Patents as Options: Some Estimates of the Value of Holding European Patent Stocks

By Ariel Pakes

The Rate of Obsolescence of Knowledge, Research Gestation Lags, and the Private Rate of Return to Research Resources

By Ariel Pakes and Mark A. Schankerman

Patents, R and D, and the Stock Market Rate of Return

By Ariel Pakes

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies