Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Regulation of Public Auditing in Canada and the United States: Self-Regulation or Government Regulation?

Fraser Institute Digital Publication, pp. 1-43, 2006

43 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2009

Adam C. Pritchard

University of Michigan Law School

Poonam Puri

York University - Osgoode Law School

Date Written: February 30, 2006

Abstract

Auditors play an important role as gatekeepers to public capital markets. By attesting to the accuracy of a company’s financial statements, the auditor lends its credibility to that company and its financial health. Both market and legal mechanisms play a role in ensuring that auditors perform high quality audits. Reputation is critical in the market for auditors. In addition, potential legal liability to issuers and investors arising from contract, tort, and statutory securities laws creates incentives for auditors to conduct high quality audits. Potential discipline by professional self-regulatory bodies also plays a part. Striking the appropriate balance among market-based, legal, and self-regulatory mechanisms is a delicate task. Canada and the US have both established oversight bodies for the auditors of public companies in an effort to enhance the quality of audits for those companies: the Canadian Public Accountability Board (CPAB) and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) in the United States. The two countries deviate, however, in their allocation of regulatory responsibility in relation to the accounting profession, with Canada continuing to rely on a largely self-regulatory model and the US relying almost exclusively on government regulation. This study compares these two approaches to the regulation of public auditors in Canada and the US and offers concrete suggestions for improvement. In particular, this study analyzes and compares the CPAB and the PCAOB, looking at the structure, operation, and governance of the two boards, and analyzing their effectiveness and making recommendations for how they might be improved.

Keywords: Auditors, Public Auditing in Canada, CPAB, PCAOB, accuracy of financial statements

Suggested Citation:

Pritchard, Adam C. and Puri, Poonam, The Regulation of Public Auditing in Canada and the United States: Self-Regulation or Government Regulation? (February 30, 2006). Fraser Institute Digital Publication, pp. 1-43, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1427641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
The board is empowered to impose a wide range of sanctions, including: 4 money penalties of up to $100,000 for associated persons and $2 million for firms , volume 105
More stringent penalties can be imposed for intentional or knowing misconduct or repeated negligence: 4 temporary or permanent suspensions of registration of firms or bars of their associated persons
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
, volume 105
Crossref
Country Survey-Canada: Institutes Full of Bright Ideas
References Accountant
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
564
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,179
RANK
111,747
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Cares About Auditor Reputation?

By Jan Barton

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies