Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assets Under Management (AUM) for Various Kinds of Funds - Pension Funds, Hedge Funds, Private Equity and Mutual Funds

80 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2009

Aravind M.S.

S.P. Jain Center of Management

Bikram Pattanaik

S P Jain Center of Management

Date Written: June 28, 2009

Abstract

The recent financial turmoil has resulted in most of the wealth residing in the form of cash. An extensive research on the various types of funds, the amount of money which goes into each of them and their asset allocation will help us in understanding the fund management business in a broad sense and also in identifying the business opportunities that might arise once the financial turmoil is over. Various kinds of commonly known funds are pension funds, hedge funds, mutual funds, sovereign funds, private equity funds, etc. Depending on the kinds of investors, each fund can be classified as high risk, medium risk or a low risk one. When we delve further into each of the above funds, complexities arise since each of the above funds is quite broad. This research paper covers the analysis of pension funds and hedge funds. The main focus is on the analysis of these funds in terms of Geography, Assets Under Management (AUM), Asset Allocations, the strategies being followed and the changes happening due to the recent financial turmoil. The primary data has been collected by means of questionnaires, interviews and email correspondence with fund managers across different countries. The secondary data has been collected from different sources such as journals, newspapers, research reports and internet.

Keywords: Assets Under Management (AUM)

JEL Classification: M44, G23

Suggested Citation:

M.S., Aravind and Pattanaik, Bikram, Assets Under Management (AUM) for Various Kinds of Funds - Pension Funds, Hedge Funds, Private Equity and Mutual Funds (June 28, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1427063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1427063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
OECD Classification and Glossary (Private Pensions)
abstract_id=939629 by Rene M Stulz Posted: 2009-02-23
Crossref
Capital Markets Institutions and Instruments
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
936
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,479
RANK
57,392
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies