Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Auditing in Small Private Family Firms: Is it About Quality or Credibility?

23 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2009

Mervi Niskanen

University of Eastern Finland

Jukka Karjalainen

University of Eastern Finland - Business School

Jyrki Niskanen

University of Kuopio - Department of Business and Management

Date Written: July 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper is one of few that investigate the role of auditing in family firms. Our results suggest that family firms are less likely to use Big 4 audit firms than the non-family firms in our sample of small private Finnish firms. More specifically, we find that an increase in family ownership decreases the likelihood that a Big 4 audit firm will be engaged. Because of our Finnish database we are also able to differentiate between the demand for Big 4 audit firms, other highly qualified certified auditors and non-certified auditors. Our results show that family ownership has no impact on the demand for certified auditor services. Also, contrary to most previous studies on the demand of audit quality in private firms, leverage does not have a significant effect in our sample of small private family firms.

Keywords: Audit quality, family ownership, agency costs

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Niskanen, Mervi and Karjalainen, Jukka and Niskanen, Jyrki, The Role of Auditing in Small Private Family Firms: Is it About Quality or Credibility? (July 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1428382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1428382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Argawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantititative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 398 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B H Baltagi
Econometric Analysis of Panel Data Posted: 2008
Load more
3 Citations
Ole-Kristian Hope , Dushyantkumar Vyas
Private Company Finance and Financial Reporting
Forthcoming, Accounting and Business Research, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2928730 · 53 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2017 · Last revised: 16 Apr 2017 · Downloads: 410
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Curtis M. Hall , Benjamin W. Hoffman , Zenghui Liu
Ownership Structure and Auditor Selection
Managerial Auditing Journal, forthcoming. · 27 Pages · Posted: 21 Nov 2017 · Last revised: 5 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 314
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahsan Habib , Julia Wu , Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan , Xuan (Sean) Sun
Determinants of Auditor Choice: Review of the Empirical Literature
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 23, Issue 2, pp. 308-335, 2019 · 28 Pages · Posted: 22 May 2020 · Downloads: 13
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,549
RANK
129,393
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Demand for Audit Quality in Small Private Firms: Evidence on Ownership Effects

By Mervi Niskanen, Jukka Karjalainen, ...

Small Business Borrowing and the Owner-Manager Agency Costs: Evidence on Finnish Data

By Mervi Niskanen and Jyrki Niskanen

Audit Quality: The Role of Board Structure in Family Firms

By Mervi Niskanen, Jukka Karjalainen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies