Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interaction of Management Accounting Information System and Logistics Functions: A Case of a Developing Country-Vietnam

40 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2009

Michele Pomberg

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hamid Pourjalali

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 20, 2009

Abstract

Research by Pomberg, Pourjalali, and Aptel (2009) provided insights into hospitals’ logistics department functions in Vietnam. The current study examines the relationship between management accounting and logistics functions of hospitals in Vietnam, in particular how hospitals have improved/intend to improve their accounting and logistics activities to decrease costs and how they have tried to implement known managerial (accounting) systems to improve efficiencies. For the first time, a study shows the influence of management accounting on maturity of logistics functions in hospitals in an environment that is rapidly changing from centrally governed to a more open capital market environments hospitals. Based on survey data from 53 hospitals in Hanoi and surrounding provinces, the study reports whether those environmental changes have resulted in actual or planned changes in management accounting and logistics activities. Our results show that in response to environmental and regulatory changes, Vietnamese hospitals have improved both accounting and logistics function in recent years and are planning to continue their development further. We also found that there is a direct relationship between accounting information and maturity of logistic functions. Our sensitivity tests revealed that our results are not derived from methodology used in developing indices for accounting and logistics functions.

Keywords: Hospital costing, logistics, accounting information systems, Vietnam

JEL Classification: M40, J53, M11

Suggested Citation:

Pomberg, Michele and Pourjalali, Hamid, Interaction of Management Accounting Information System and Logistics Functions: A Case of a Developing Country-Vietnam (June 20, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1428564 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1428564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
S J Adams
Vietnam's health care system: A macroeconomic perspective. Paper prepared for the International Symposium on Health Care Systems in Asia Posted: 2005-01-21
Phuong Anh
Low cost and high quality lure foreigners to HCMC hospitals Source: Vietnam latest news, Thanh Nien Daily at www.thanhniennews Posted: 2007-06-22
O Aptel , H Pourjalali
Improving activities and decreasing costs of logistics in hospitals: A comparison of U.S. and French hospitals
International Journal of Accounting , volume 36 , p. 65 - 90 Posted: 2001
Crossref
O Aptel , M Pomberg , H Pourjalali
A report on improving activities of logistics departments in hospitals: A comparison of french and U.S. hospitals. Working paper Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,955
RANK
45,025
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies