Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalisation and Regionalisation of Accounting Firms and Their Sustainability Services

International Marketing Review, Vol. 26, Nos. 4/5, pp. 396-410

29 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2009 Last revised: 17 Aug 2009

Ans Kolk

University of Amsterdam Business School

Andreea Margineantu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 30, 2009

Abstract

The debate about global integration (standardisation) versus responsiveness (adaptation) has recently been supplemented with perspectives that emphasise regionalisation. And while the discussion has also been extended from manufacturing to services, there are specific sectors and emergent topics that have not yet received much attention. This paper explores how accounting firms (Big Four) and particularly their sustainability services fit in the globalisation/regionalisation/localisation spectrum, and appear to standardise or adapt in main countries in the various regions around the world. Examined are the Big Four accounting firms in general, and their sustainability services in fifteen countries in five regions and globally, as presented on their respective websites. Findings show that, while overall the Big Four are somewhere between globalisation and bi-regionalisation, the traditional independent member firm structure appears to prevail in service offerings, as sustainability services do not exhibit standardisation and there are hardly signs of regionalisation/globalisation. This seems to result from special characteristics of services, such as inseparability of production and consumption, and local requirements regarding sustainability.

Keywords: globalisation, regionalisation, standardisation-adaptation debate, big Four accounting firms, corporate social responsibility, sustainability

JEL Classification: D21, F23, G38, H79, K32, L1, L2, L84, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kolk, Ans and Margineantu, Andreea, Globalisation and Regionalisation of Accounting Firms and Their Sustainability Services (June 30, 2009). International Marketing Review, Vol. 26, Nos. 4/5, pp. 396-410, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1428028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M Agrawal
Review of a 40-year debate in international advertising Practitioner and academician perspectives to the standardization/adaptation issue
International Marketing Review , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 48 Posted: 1995
P Bansal
Evolving sustainably: A longitudinal study of corporate sustainable development
Strategic Management Journal , volume 26 , p. 197 - 218 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S D Beets , C C Souther
Corporate Environmental Reports: The Need for Standards and an Environmental Assurance Service
Accounting Horizons , volume 13 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Bird , M J Stevens
Toward an emergent global culture and the effects of globalization on obsolescing national cultures
Journal of International Management , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 395 - 407 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,007
RANK
241,875
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The International Scale and Scope of European Multinationals

By Chang Hoon Oh

Social and Sustainability Dimensions of Regionalization and (Semi)Globalization

By Ans Kolk

Value Creation and Home Region Internationalization by U.S. MNEs

By Chang Hoon Oh

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies