Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Expectation Gap and Loan Decision Performance of Bank Officers in Iran

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 5, No. 3, pp. 310-328, 2009

Posted: 8 Jul 2009

Amirhossein Taebi Noghondari

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Soon Yau Foong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

This study examines the effect of accounting knowledge and experiences of Iranian bank officers on the audit expectation gap, and investigates whether the gap mediates (or explains) the individual factor-loan decision performance relationship. Copies of a structured questionnaire were distributed to 113 loan officers from five large commercial banks in Iran and responses of 111 bank officers were analysed. The results show the existence of a fairly large audit expectation gap among the Iranian bank loan officers, and accounting knowledge was found to significantly mitigate the extent of the gap. More importantly, this study found a highly significant negative relationship between the audit expectation gap and loan decision performance of the Iranian bank officers. Further analyses indicate that the audit expectation gap fully mediates the individual knowledge-performance relationship. The findings of this study have important policy implications for recruitment and training of the bank officers.

Keywords: accounting knowledge, audit expectation gap, accounting experience, Iran, bank officers, loan decisions, performance evaluation, commercial banks, recruitment, training

Suggested Citation:

Taebi Noghondari, Amirhossein and Foong, Soon Yau, Audit Expectation Gap and Loan Decision Performance of Bank Officers in Iran (2009). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 5, No. 3, pp. 310-328, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1430852
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,651
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies