Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards and International Portfolio Holdings

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2009 Last revised: 7 Mar 2014

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

Aida Sijamic Wahid

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto - Accounting

Date Written: March 4, 2014

Abstract

Do differences in countries’ accounting standards affect global investment decisions? We explore this question by examining how accounting distance, the difference in the accounting standards used in the investor’s and the investee’s countries, affects the asset allocation decisions of global mutual funds. We find that investors tend to underweight investees with greater accounting distance. Using the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as an event that changed the accounting standards of various country-pairs, we examine how two sources of changes in accounting distance – (i) change due to IFRS adoption of the investee and (ii) change due to IFRS adoption in the investor’s country – affect global portfolio allocation decisions. We find that the tendency to underinvest in investees with greater accounting distance significantly weakens when accounting distance is reduced either from an investee’s IFRS adoption or from IFRS adoption in the investor’s country. The latter finding holds despite the fact that IFRS adoption in the investor’s country had no impact on the accounting standards under which the investee firms present their financial information; the only change is in the investor’s familiarity with these standards. This suggests that differences in accounting standards affect investor demand by imposing greater information-processing cost on those less familiar with the reporting standards.

Keywords: IFRS, Home bias, Harmonization, International CAPM

JEL Classification: M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Gwen and Wahid, Aida Sijamic and Wahid, Aida Sijamic, Accounting Standards and International Portfolio Holdings (March 4, 2014). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1430589 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1430589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
G De Franco , S Kothari , R Verdi
The Benefits of Financial Statement Comparability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , p. 895 - 931 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Defond , X Hu , M Hung , S Li
The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Foreign Mutual Fund Ownership: The Role of Comparability
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 240 - 258 Posted: 2011
Crossref
W Diamond , R Verrecchia
Disclosure, Liquidity, and the Cost of Capital
Journal of Finance , volume 46 , p. 1325 - 1359 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Y Ding , T O-K. Hope , H Jeanjean , Stolowy
Differences between Domestic Accounting Standards and IAS: Measurement, Determinants and Implications
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,050
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,626
RANK
48,904
32 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies