Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Regard to the Reasonable Person Standard, Standards of Responsibility, and Court Settlements (in Lithuanian)

Apskaita ir kontrole, 1997

3 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2009 Last revised: 19 Jul 2010

Tadas Klimas

Independent

Date Written: September 3, 1997

Abstract

Observations regarding the difficulty presented by the concept 'reasonable' for a country with no experience or history of reasonable actions (inasmuch as there was no reasonability standard in Soviet times, nor could there be under Communist ideology).

Also a brief explanation of the concept of negligence in regards to professionals.

A commentary upon the then refusal of the tax authority to settle cases.

Note: Downloadable document is in Lithuanian.

Keywords: reasonability, reasonable person standard, reception of the reasonable person standard, protingumas, sveikas protas, aplaidumas, profesine klaida, taikos sutartis

JEL Classification: K4, K34

Suggested Citation:

Klimas, Tadas, In Regard to the Reasonable Person Standard, Standards of Responsibility, and Court Settlements (in Lithuanian) (September 3, 1997). Apskaita ir kontrole, 1997, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1431921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
953
RANK
819,727
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies