Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance of Analysts' Earnings Forecasts - Evidence from Finnish Emerging Markets 1987-2005

Research Institute of the Finnish Economy Discussion Paper No. 1160

Posted: 11 Jul 2009

Mikko Kalevi Kepsu

University of Turku - Turku School of Economics

Hannu J. Schadewitz

Turku School of Economics at the University of Turku - Department of Accounting & Finance

Markku J. Vieru

University of Lapland - Faculty of Social Sciences, Multidimensional Tourism Institute

Date Written: November 10, 2008

Abstract

Financial analysts comprise one important group of information intermediaries between firms and investors (Healy & Palepu, 2001). They have great potential to decrease information asymmetry between firms and investors, resulting in better allocation of capital. Analysts’ work is influenced by, among other things, the quality and quantity of information available from the target firms. Furthermore, analysts’ incentives could be influenced by the employer’s other affairs with the client. Our paper has three purposes: 1) to review the main research literature on analysts’ activity and performance, 2) to describe the development of analysts’ activity in the period 1987-2005 in a Finnish emerging market, and 3) to analyse the impact of market regulation and market cycles on analysts’ performance. Performance is studied in three dimensions: forecasting accuracy, forecast bias, and forecasting efficiency. Analysts’ data are based on I/B/E/S. Our analysis shows the rapid development of analysts’ activity, both in terms of the number of forecasts and longer forecasting horizons. Overall, the result supports the conclusion that analysts tend to be somewhat pessimistic in their Earnings per share (EPS) forecasts. Furthermore, the corrective actions taken have been somewhat sluggish (delays in EPS revisions). However, the forecasts improved significantly in the close before the actual EPS releases (0-1 month sample). Finally, analysts were not fully taking into account prior EPS development. This further supports the view that analysts underestimate the value of prior earnings change in their current earnings forecasting.

Keywords: analysts’ earnings forecasting, emerging markets

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M47

Suggested Citation:

Kepsu, Mikko Kalevi and Schadewitz, Hannu J. and Vieru, Markku, Performance of Analysts' Earnings Forecasts - Evidence from Finnish Emerging Markets 1987-2005 (November 10, 2008). Research Institute of the Finnish Economy Discussion Paper No. 1160 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1431849
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,230
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies