Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Finding a New Corporate Tax Base After the Abolishment of the One-Book System in EU Member States

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Jul 2009

Sebastian Schanz

University of Bielefeld

Deborah Schanz

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: July 8, 2009

Abstract

Due to the implementation of international financial reporting standards in the European Union, member states with uniform accounting are expected to replace their current one-book system with a two-book system, which will separate tax accounting and financial accounting. This separation presents the challenge of defining a new tax base. Since a tax base is not required to provide information that helps users in economic decision making, tax accounting can be simplified compared to financial accounting. This paper discusses possible future tax bases of German companies. We develop a business model simulation based on empirical data to quantify the change in the tax burden of different industries induced by alternative tax accounting regulations. We identify a simplified tax base that avoids major shifts in the tax burden. Thus, the paper provides useful information for economists and politicians who make decisions about the new German tax accounting regulations. Moreover, this tax base and the identified drivers of sector-specific tax payments form an important basis for the discussion in other EU member states that face a comparable phase-out of one-book accounting.

Keywords: Uniform accounting, separate accounting, one-book system, two-book system, tax accounting, tax base, EU member states, Germany

JEL Classification: H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Schanz, Sebastian and Schanz, Deborah, Finding a New Corporate Tax Base After the Abolishment of the One-Book System in EU Member States (July 8, 2009). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1431363
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,681
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies