Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB) and Effective Tax Burdens in the EU Member States

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 09-026

25 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2009

Timo Reister

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Andreas Oestreicher

University of Göttingen

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

The article assesses the impact of a Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB) as promoted by the European Commission and the related Working Groups on the effective tax burdens of companies in all 27 EU member states. The results shall help to evaluate the economic consequences of introducing a harmonized set of tax accounting rules for EU-based companies. The proposals for a CCTB covered here include depreciation on intangibles, machinery, buildings, furniture and fixture, simplified valuation of inventories, determination of production costs for stocks, treatment of costs for R&D as part of production costs, provisions for future pension payments, provisions for legal obligations, avoidance of double taxation regarding dividend income, and loss relief. The proposed options for a CCTB are applied for average EU-27 corporations of different size as well as for model companies belonging to different economic sectors.

Keywords: European taxation, tax harmonization, tax accounting, effective tax burdens

JEL Classification: H20, H21, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Reister, Timo and Spengel, Christoph and Oestreicher, Andreas, Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB) and Effective Tax Burdens in the EU Member States (2009). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 09-026, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1431893 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1431893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
CCCTB: possible elements of a technical outline
CCCTB/WP057\doc\en Posted: 2007
M P Devereux , R Griffith
The Taxation of Discrete Investment Choices -Revision 2, The Institute for Fiscal Studies
Working Paper Series Posted: 1999
M P Devereux , R Griffith
Taxes and the Location of Production: Evidence from a Panel of US Multinationals
Journal of Public Economic , p. 335 - 367 Posted: 1998
Crossref
ECB and Eurostat calculations
ECB Posted: 2006
Load more
5 Citations
Deborah Schanz , Andreas Dinkel , Sara Keller
Tax attractiveness and the location of German-controlled subsidiaries
Review of Managerial Science , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 251 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Anna Leszczyłowska
Deductibility of Provisions under the CCCTB Proposal and Its Effects on Companies: The Case of Poland
European Financial and Accounting Journal , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 19 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Ulrich Schreiber
International Company Taxation
, p. 117 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Christoph Spengel
Kernfragen des Unternehmenssteuerrechts
, volume 16 , p. 59 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,455
RANK
279,629
5 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Effective Tax Rates in Macroeconomics: Cross-Country Estimates of Tax Rates on Factor Incomes and Consumption

By Enrique G. Mendoza, Assaf Razin, ...

Do Countries Compete Over Corporate Tax Rates?

By Michael P. Devereux, Ben Lockwood, ...

The Taxation of Income from Capital: A Comparative Study of the U.S., U.K., Sweden, and West Germany--The Theoretical Framework--

By Mervyn King and Don Fullerton

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies