Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Regulatory Changes, International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption, and New Zealand Audit and Non-Audit Fees: Empirical Evidence

Accounting and Finance, 2009

Posted: 16 Jul 2009

Paul A. Griffin

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

David H. Lont

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Estelle Yuan Sun

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: April 1, 2009

Abstract

This study examines the association between overseas and New Zealand governance regulatory reforms and New Zealand companies’ audit and non-audit fees. Our models use temporal and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) indicator variables to relate the timing of the fee changes to the incidence of the overseas and local reforms. We find that audit fees increased in New Zealand over 2002–2006. Such increases associate reliably with the transition to and adoption of NZ IFRS and not with earlier overseas governance reforms. Our study also documents a decrease in non-audit fees over the same period, but we find no IFRS effect for non-audit fees.

Keywords: Audit fees, Auditor independence, Governance regulations, International Financial Reporting Standards, Non-audit fees, NZ IFRS, Sarbanes–Oxley Act

JEL Classification: C30, K22, L80, M40, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Griffin, Paul A. and Lont, David H. and Sun, Estelle Yuan, Governance Regulatory Changes, International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption, and New Zealand Audit and Non-Audit Fees: Empirical Evidence (April 1, 2009). Accounting and Finance, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1432663
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,125
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies