Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Taxes in Compensation: A Case of Shareholder Expropriation

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Jul 2009

Annita Florou

Bocconi University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 16, 2009

Abstract

In this paper I exploit a unique feature of the Greek institutional environment, whereby alternative cash compensation payments to directors are taxed differently from the point of view of both personal and corporate taxes. Board directors can receive cash compensation either in the form of taxable salary or in the form of tax-free profit distributions. Salary payments are deductible for corporate tax purposes whereas profit distributions are not, making a unit of profit distribution more costly to shareholders than a unit of salary. Ceteris paribus, rational directors prefer profit distribution to salary given that in the former case their personal taxes are paid by shareholders. Using this setting I document that board directors increase their net compensation by shifting their personal taxes to outside shareholders, who consequently earn lower after-tax income. Moreover, I show that profit distributions reduce shareholder value. Collectively, my findings are consistent with board compensation via profit distributions indicating shareholder expropriation. I also find that the degree of tax-shifting reduces as board ownership increases. This is particularly the case for family board members. Overall, the study’s results have implications for both researchers and financial reporting regulators considering compensation issues.

Keywords: Taxes, executive compensation, managerial ownership, shareholder expropriation, family control, income shifting

JEL Classification: H24, M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Florou, Annita, The Role of Taxes in Compensation: A Case of Shareholder Expropriation (June 16, 2009). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1433196
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,364
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies