Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is More R&D Investment Always Better?

AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

37 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2009 Last revised: 19 Jul 2009

Cheng-Jen Huang

Tunghai University - Department of Accounting

Shu-Yun Chen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 13, 2009

Abstract

R&D investment has long been the firm foundation of the electronic industry’s competitiveness. According to some prior literature on the linear model, R&D investment has a positive effect on innovation and company performance. However, there is still some question concerning whether more R&D investment is always better. As to enterprise, managers are more concerned about the limits of R&D investment. When do the costs of R&D investment exceed the benefits? This study uses Taiwan’s electronics industry as a research sample and examines the curvilinear relationships between R&D investment, innovation, and firm performance. The empirical results show that R&D investment has an inverted U-shape relationship with innovation and firm performance. The deferred effect lasts five years. Moreover, regarding financial performance and market performance, the optimal R&D intensity is about 18.95% and 12.23% for sample firms. Therefore, excessive investment in R&D will lead to decline in a company’s performance. Finally, the R&D intensity of Taiwanese electronic industry is about 3% to 4%. This study concludes that the Taiwanese electronic industry still has great potential for additional R&D investment compared to the optimal R&D intensity level.

Keywords: R&D investment, innovation, firm performance, Taiwan Electronic Industry

JEL Classification: M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Cheng-Jen and Chen, Shu-Yun, Is More R&D Investment Always Better? (July 13, 2009). AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1433341 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1433341
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
D B Balkin , G D Markman , L R Gomez-Mejia
Is CEO pay in high-technology firms related to innovation?
Management Journal , volume 43 , issue 6 , p. 1118 - 1129 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
H Becker , L Speltz
Putting the S-curve concept to work
Research Management , volume 26 , p. 31 - 33 Posted: 1983-09
Crossref
A Belsley , E Kuh , R Welsch
Regression Diagnostics Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Emmanouil Pantagakis , Dimitrios Terzakis , Stavros Arvanitis
R&D Investments and Firm Performance: An Empirical Investigation of the High Technology Sector (Software and Hardware) in the E.U.
20 Pages · Posted: 21 Nov 2012 · Last revised: 22 Oct 2014 · Downloads: 1,688
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,467
RANK
292,525
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Performance of R&D Cooperation: Evidence from Taiwan's High-Technology Industries

By Cheng-jen Huang and Hui-ling Liu

Aligning Partnering Strategy, Partner Governance and Partner Management in R&D Projects: The Impact of Contract Choice

By Alan Maccormack and Anant Mishra

Synergy Effects of Innovation Capital and Human Capital in Taiwan’s Semiconductor Industry

By Cheng-jen Huang

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies