Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Crisis and Banks' Corporate Governance Models: Implications and Perspectives

Bancaria No. 01-2009

Posted: 14 Jul 2009 Last revised: 28 Aug 2009

Rainer Masera

Libera Università degli Studi Sociali (LUISS) Guido Carli

Date Written: January 1, 2009

Abstract

In the international discussion about the change of the supervisory system, the strength of the approaches defined in Italy must be emphasized. If the model based on the board of statutory auditors could not be exported, some of the main characteristics could be preserved and replicated. The main aspects that must be safeguard could be summarized as follows: the existence of multiple auditors with the same role in the firm could be harmful and a governance model based on the separation of the role and independence of firms function and auditors is necessary.

Note: Downloadable document is in Italian.

Keywords: Financial Crisis, Governance, Auditors

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Masera, Rainer, The Financial Crisis and Banks' Corporate Governance Models: Implications and Perspectives (January 1, 2009). Bancaria No. 01-2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1433702
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies