Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Transparency on Business Performance: A Comparative Study of Korean Chaebols

Posted: 13 Jul 2009

Chul-kyu Kang

University of Seoul - Department of Economics

Jae-Hyung Lee

Seoul National University - School of Economics

Date Written: July 13, 2009

Abstract

Through the use of a balanced panel data on Korea’s top 29 Chaebols pooled across the years 2003, 2004, and 2005, our results suggest that corporate transparency (i.e., the provision of information and accurate disclosure in both Korean and English) makes a substantial contribution to business performance. It is also evident in Chaebol comparisons that business performance is more elastic with respect to corporate transparency in the second largest Chaebol group (i.e., the 6th to the 16th largest Chaebols) than in the largest (i.e., the five largest Chaebols) and third largest (i.e., the 17th to the 29th largest Chaebols) Chaebol groups.

Keywords: Corporate transparency, Business performance, Chaebol, Comparison among Chaebols, Elasticity

JEL Classification: C51, L20, M14

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Chul-kyu and Lee, Jae-Hyung, The Effect of Corporate Transparency on Business Performance: A Comparative Study of Korean Chaebols (July 13, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1433263
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,452
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies