Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Profit Targets and Earnings Management in Initial Public Offerings: The Case of Malaysia

Journal of Financial Reporting & Accounting, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2008

25 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2009

Norashikin Ismail

Universiti Teknologi MARA

Date Written: November 1, 2008

Abstract

We examine the extent of earnings management associated with meeting forecasts made in IPO prospectuses in a developing economy where government regulation requires a profit forecast but allows promoters to choose either (1) to provide a profit guarantee or (2) to elect for a moratorium on share transfers for a defined period. Since the managers is mandated to make earnings forecast and there are costs associated with forecast error, we hypothesize that, in the first reporting period following the IPO, managers opting for a profit guarantee will signal their ability to produce a result within the target zone while managers opting for a share moratorium will match that performance to maintain their reputation, with the result that both groups are indistinguishable in the magnitude of earnings management.

Using a sample of 92 regulated IPO firms we find a strong negative association between forecast error before earnings management and a firm's discretionary accruals. Our results support the hypotheses, leading to the conclusion that earnings are managed towards the forecast amount, consistent with both the desire not to deviate excessively from the forecast and income smoothing.

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Norashikin, Regulatory Profit Targets and Earnings Management in Initial Public Offerings: The Case of Malaysia (November 1, 2008). Journal of Financial Reporting & Accounting, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1434970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
J Aharony , C J Lin , M P Loeb
Initial public offerings, accounting choices and earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 83 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Ahmad-Zaluki , K Campbell , A Goodacre
Earnings management and post-IPO performance: an investigation of economic crisis and other determinants Posted: 2007-09-22
Ahmad-Zaluki , K Campbell , A Goodacre
The Long run share price performance of Malaysian initial public offerings (IPOs)
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText Posted: 2007
Crossref
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subramanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,350
RANK
386,928
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Long Run Share Price Performance of Malaysian Initial Public Offerings (Ipos)

By Nurwati A. Ahmad-zaluki, Kevin Campbell, ...

Long Run Underperformance after Ipos and Optimistic Analysts' Forecasts

By Salim Chahine

Earnings Management in Malaysian IPOs: The East Asian Crisis, Ownership Control and Post-IPO Performance

By Nurwati A. Ahmad-zaluki, Kevin Campbell, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies