Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Concept of Segmental Financial Reporting

8 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2009 Last revised: 19 Aug 2009

Atim E. Esang

Cross River University of Technology (CRUTECH)

Agba D. O. Otonkue

Cross River University of Technology

Bernard Enya Edu

Cross River University of Technology

Date Written: July 16, 2009

Abstract

Segmental financial reporting applies to multinational organizations that maintain one or more subsidiaries or branches in different geographical locations and with divergent operations. This paper, thus, focuses on the basic concept underlying the preparation and presentation of financial statements that are of great help the users. Accordingly, the aims, scope and applicability of the disclosure requirements of companies and allied matters legislations are examined. Other areas that are equally examined and discussed are: the concomitant problems that are encountered in the course of producing financial reports for the diversified or multinational companies, the treatment of internal sales and inter-segmental or common costs such as issues of allocation problems, the determination of reportable segment, and the contrast between formal financial statements with informal commentaries as a means of conveying financial. Furthermore, the disclosure requirements of SSAP 25 (Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No. 25), FRS 3 (Financial Reporting Standard No. 3) and companies and allied matters legislations are also highlighted. The paper concludes that users of financial statements need to be abreast with the current or latest practices and operations of these multinationals. Thus, the preparation and presentation of these financial statements should be done in such a way that would give a true and fair view of the company. Again, the reporting entities should disclose the geographical segmentation of turnover by origin; and to the third parties, the disclosure should be by destination. The paper recommends the harmonization of SSAP 25 and FRS 3 as a means of shading more light on the area of interpretation and disclosure practices.

Keywords: Business segment, Geographical segment, Reportable segment, Net assets, Segment result, Operating activities, Origin and Destination turnover

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Esang, Atim E. and Otonkue, Agba D. O. and Edu, Bernard Enya, The Concept of Segmental Financial Reporting (July 16, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1434830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1434830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Alexander , A Britton
Financial Reporting. 5 th ed. Int Posted: 2000
Crossref
Brown Lee Etal
Corporate Financial Reporting Text and Cases , volume 2 , p. 596 - 601 Posted: 1994
C R Emmanuel , N Garrod
Segmental Reporting: International Issues and Evidence, Prentice-Hall in association with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales Posted: 1992
C R Emmanuel , S J Garry
Segmental Disclosures and the Segment Identification Problem
Accounting and Business Research , p. 37 - 50 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,328
RANK
164,343
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies