Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting, Intangible Assets, Stock Market Activity, and Measurement and Disclosure Policy: Views from the UK

56 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2009

Elisabeth Dedman

Edge Hill University Business School

Sulaiman Mouselli

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yun Shen

University of Nottingham, Ningbo

Andrew W. Stark

Alliance Manchester Business School, University of Manchester

Date Written: January 30, 2009

Abstract

This paper considers the impact of UK practices with respect to the measurement and disclosure of intangible assets, focusing on RD activities. We first update prior UK work relating RD activities to market prices. Second, given the clearly identified role of disclosure outside of the financial statements in helping market participants value RD expenditures, we consider whether market forces are generally sufficient to ensure adequate disclosures with respect to intangibles by considering the cases of two biotechnology firms involved in the issuance of misleading disclosures. Within this context, we consider how disclosure regulation and enforcement mechanisms have evolved in recent years, and how this evolution has likely been affected by our ‘scandal’ cases. Our conclusions are that the case of the UK does not give rise to any wide-scale concerns about the economic ill-effects caused by the current state of recognition and disclosure with respect to expenditures on intangibles. Further, market forces are unlikely to be sufficient in ensuring honest and timely disclosures with respect to intangibles, but the combination of official regulation and voluntary self-regulation appears to have stemmed the tide of any such disclosure scandals in the UK.

Keywords: accounting policy, intangibles, value relevance, asset pricing, disclosure regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M45, G12, G29

Suggested Citation:

Dedman, Elisabeth and Mouselli, Sulaiman and Shen, Yun and Stark, Andrew W., Accounting, Intangible Assets, Stock Market Activity, and Measurement and Disclosure Policy: Views from the UK (January 30, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1435783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1435783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Accounting Standards Committee, 1975, ED 14 -Accounting for Research and Development Posted: 1975-01
Accounting Standards Committee, 1975, ED 17 -Accounting for Research and Development Posted: 1976-04
Accounting Standards Committee, 1975, SSAP 13 -Accounting for Research and Development Posted: 1978-01
S Akbar , A W Stark
Deflators, Net Shareholder Cash Flows, Dividends, Capital Contributions and Estimated Models of Corporate Valuation
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 30 , p. 1211 - 1233 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Alan Gregory , Rajesh Tharyan , Angela Christidis
Constructing and Testing Alternative Versions of the Fama–French and Carhart Models in the UK
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 40, Issue 1-2, pp. 172-214, 2013 · 43 Pages · Posted: 27 Feb 2013 · Downloads: 6
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andi Duqi , Giuseppe Torluccio
The Impact of R&D on the Value of European Firms
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 9, Nr. 3 (2013) · 39 Pages · Posted: 24 Sep 2013 · Downloads: 117
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tami Dinh , Baljit K. Sidhu , Chuan Yu
Accounting for Intangibles: Can Capitalization of R&D Improve Investment Efficiency?
Abacus, Vol. 55, Issue 1, pp. 92-127, 2019 · 36 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2019 · Downloads: 14
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
547
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,990
RANK
116,175
3 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Risk and Return from Factors

By Louis K.c. Chan, J. Karaceski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies