Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Motivators and Audit Delay of Qualified Opinion in Brazil - 2007

17 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2009 Last revised: 18 Aug 2009

Maxwel Nunes de Paula

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Antonio Nunes Pereira

University of Sao Paulo - Faculdade de Direito; Universidade Municipal de São Caetano do Sul (USCS); Fucape Business School

Date Written: July 19, 2009

Abstract

The paper aims to identify the motivators and audit delay of qualified opinion in Brazil. As descriptive and exploratory characteristics, the study uses of the content and exploratory descriptive statistics. It has documentation from the audit opinion in 2007 and available at Brazilian Stock Exchange Commission (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários), Brazilian Standardized Financial Statements (DFP) until March, 31 2008. They were initially counted 520 companies that presented her demonstrations, of which just 34 obtained qualified opinion, the investigation focus. An exploratory analysis of data indicated that the four more recurring reasons of the qualified opinion were: Leasing accountancy inconsistency, the accountancy of colligated controlled by method of patrimonial equivalence, revaluation of assets, companies with the going concern restrictions. For the analyzed sample, the reports delivery average term with qualified opinion belonged to 61 days regarding the average 53 day for clean opinion. It recommends for future researches the inferences temporal horizon and inclusion utilization of models and test with governance and data panel models.

Keywords: qualified opinion, audit report, audit delay

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

de Paula, Maxwel Nunes and Pereira, Antonio Nunes, Motivators and Audit Delay of Qualified Opinion in Brazil - 2007 (July 19, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1436047 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1436047
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J F Almeida De
J G C Almeida De
Auditoria e Earnings Management: um estudo empírico nas empresas de capital aberto auditadas pelas big Fours e demais firmas de auditoria , volume 519 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M C Almeida , Auditoria
um curso moderno e completo. São Paulo: Atlas Posted: 1996
J ; Antunes , Congresso , De Controladoria E Contabilidade
Lógica Nebulosa para Avaliar Riscos na Auditoria , volume 251 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,202
RANK
154,771
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Market Information and Predictive Accuracy of the Going Concern Opinion

By Kannan Raghunandan and K.r. Subramanyam

Rules Rather than Discretion in Audit Standards: Going-Concern Opinions in Belgium

By Joseph V. Carcello, Ann Vanstraelen, ...

The Effect of Bankruptcy Reform on the Number of Corporate Reorganization Proposals

By Timothy C. G. Fisher and Jocelyn Martel

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies