Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Commercial Banks' Residual Profitability: An Industry Approach

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 37, No. 139, pp. 469-500, September 2008

Posted: 27 Jul 2009 Last revised: 27 Jul 2009

Borja Amor-Tapia

Universidad de León

Maria T. Tascón

Universidad de León

José L. Fanjul

Universidad de León

Date Written: July 27, 2008

Abstract

Using a contextual approach on a sample of commercial banks from the OECD countries, this study identifies some drivers of abnormal ROE (residual income scaled by beginning-of-period book value of equity). We select the key theoretical variables from the banking and the accounting literature and analyze the impact on the prediction of future abnormal ROEs. After regressing the following year's abnormal ROE on those variables, we verify that some of them, related to the competitiveness of banks and the accounting system, play a determinant role. Our evidence suggests that the identification of ‘other information’ factors, by a contextual approach, might improve the empirical use of the Ohlson Model in commercial banks, especially when they act in competitive environments and/or relevant intangibles are not captured by accounting.

Keywords: residual income model, abnormal earnings, equity valuation, contextual approach, financial firms

JEL Classification: D40, G12, M40, G24

Suggested Citation:

Amor-Tapia, Borja and Tascon, Maria Teresa and Fanjul, José L., Determinants of Commercial Banks' Residual Profitability: An Industry Approach (July 27, 2008). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 37, No. 139, pp. 469-500, September 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1439761
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
931
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies