Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reforms in Transition Economies – A Mixed Record and Complex Future Agenda

CASE Network Studies and Analyses No. 231

36 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2009

Marek Dabrowski

Bruegel; CASE - Center for Social and Economic Research; Central European University, Department of Public Policy

Magdalena Tomczynska

CASE - Center for Social and Economic Research

Date Written: 2001

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the diversified picture of the tax systems and tax reforms in the former communist countries after the first decade of their transition from a centrally planned to a market economy system. While CEB countries are seriously advanced in synchronization of their tax systems with those of the EU, the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) suffer a lot of instability and distortions in this sphere (and Balkan countries staying in the middle between both groups). Thus, the CIS countries, including Russia and Ukraine, face a challenge of further substantial tax reforms related to list of existing taxes and quasi-tax obligations, construction of basic taxes, tax administration and procedures, issue of fiscal federalism (particularly in Russia), and many others. The authors' intention is to give the overall characteristics of the tax systems in two broad groups of countries (i.e. the EU candidates, and the CIS countries) with a special emphasis devoted to principal shortcomings of tax regulations, and remaining challenges of tax reform.

Keywords: taxation, tax system, tax reform

Suggested Citation:

Dabrowski, Marek and Dabrowski, Marek and Tomczynska, Magdalena, Tax Reforms in Transition Economies – A Mixed Record and Complex Future Agenda (2001). CASE Network Studies and Analyses No. 231, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1440219 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1440219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A Aslund
Special Tax Problems and Solutions in Former Soviet Countries Posted: 2001-02-23
L Barbone , H Polackova
Public Finances and Economic Transition
Studies and Analyzes , issue 68 Posted: 1996-03
Marek Dabrowski , Marek Dabrowski
Macroeconomic and Fiscal Challenges Facing Central European Countries during the EU Accession Process (tables)
CASE Network Reports No. 26 Pages: 13 Posted: 19 Jul 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Ebrill , O Havrylyshyn
Tax Reform in the Baltics, Russia, and Other Countries of the Former Soviet Union
IMF Occasional Paper , issue 182 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,882
RANK
505,351
4 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Health Care in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland - The Medium Term Fiscal Aspects

By Péter Mihályi

Evaluating Government Policy in Transition Countries

By Max Gillman

Macroeconomic and Fiscal Challenges Facing Central European Countries during the EU Accession Process (text)

By Marek Dabrowski

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies