Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship Between Market Value and Book Value of Malaysian Firms Under Pre and Post FRS

15 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2009 Last revised: 24 Aug 2009

Mohamed Zulkifli

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mohd Halim Kadri

Universiti Teknologi MARA Johore Branch

Date Written: June 18, 2008

Abstract

Many researches have been conducted on the effect of adoption of IFRS on value relevance of firms e.g. Ahmed and Goodwin [2006], Harris and Muller [1999], Bartov et al. [2005], Lin and Chen [2005], Horton and Serafeim [2006], Schiebel [2006] and Niskanen et al. [2000]. Even though they were employing similar model [Ohlson, 1995], their results were not conclusive. In Malaysia, the effect of adoption of FRS on value relevance of accounting numbers is still not known yet. Current study utilised Ohlson [1995] model to investigate the relationship between market value, book value and earnings [value relevance] of Malaysian [property] firms under two different financial reporting environments namely MASB environment and FRS environment. The results show that significant relationship exists between market value, book value and earnings throughout the period under study. When the sample is separated into MASB and FRS periods, a more significant relationship between market value, book value and earnings exists during the FRS period.

Keywords: adoption of financial reporting standards, market value, book value, earnings

Suggested Citation:

Zulkifli, Mohamed and Kadri, Mohd Halim, Relationship Between Market Value and Book Value of Malaysian Firms Under Pre and Post FRS (June 18, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1440771 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1440771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Goodwin Ahmed
Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards on the Accounts and Accounting Quality of Australian Firms Posted: 2006
S R Bartov , M Goldberg , Kim
Comparative value relevance among German, US and International Accounting Standards: A German stock market perspective
Journal of Accounting Auditing & Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2005
Crossref
K Cearns
Reporting Financial Performance: A Proposed Approach
Special Report. Financial Accounting Series Posted: 1999
Canadian Australian
United Kingdom Accounting Standards Board with the International Accounting Standards Committee
New Zealand Financial Reporting Standards Board, and the United States Financial Accounting Standards Board, September. FASB
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,894
RANK
154,771
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies