Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reaping the Benefits of Two Worlds: An Exploratory Study of the Cash and the Accrual Accounting Information Roles in Local Governments

Journal of Applied Accounting Research (forthcoming)

Posted: 5 Aug 2009 Last revised: 27 Sep 2011

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Nikolaos Kaimenakis

Athens University of Economics and Business

Georgios (George) Venieris

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 31, 2009

Abstract

Purpose: The current research study explores the coexistence of cash accounting and accrual accounting systems through an investigation of the roles they fulfill in Greek municipalities.

Design/Methodology/Approach: Our survey results are based on the answers of the financial department principals of 106 municipalities to a structured questionnaire. The roles of accounting investigated are informed by Ansari and Euske’s (1987) model.

Findings: It appears that cash accounting information prevails in the major function of decision making with accrual accounting information playing a secondary role. Larger municipalities seem to use accounting data more extensively than smaller ones for negotiations both in accrual and cash terms. Moreover, our empirical evidence reveals that the use of accrual accounting information within a public sector organization setting influences its management’s attitude towards cost.

Originality/Value: Our study sheds light on the actual use of accrual accounting information in a public sector setting where customarily decisions were based on cash accounting considerations.

Keywords: Accrual Accounting, Cost Consciousness, Cash Accounting, Municipalities, Roles of Accounting Information

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Kaimenakis, Nikolaos and Venieris, Georgios (George), Reaping the Benefits of Two Worlds: An Exploratory Study of the Cash and the Accrual Accounting Information Roles in Local Governments (July 31, 2009). Journal of Applied Accounting Research (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1441896
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,517
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies