Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Administration: Patterns of Corporate Decline

C&S Law Journal, Vol. 27, p. 95, 2009

University of Queensland TC Beirne School of Law Research Paper No. 09-23

13 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2009 Last revised: 21 Oct 2009

James Routledge

Hitotsubashi University

David S. Morrison

The University of Queensland - T.C. Beirne School of Law

Abstract

Australian companies in financial distress prefer to select the option of voluntary administration (VA) offered by Pt 5.3A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). A board's choice to enter a company into a VA is premised upon the idea that it is preferable to take early action when the business is facing solvency difficulty. Such early action allows for the possibility of rescuing the business. This article examines whether directors cause businesses to trade in extenuating financial circumstances for too long a period before entering the company into a VA thereby shortening the chances of a successful business rescue. The empirical analysis presented suggests that timely entry into a VA is critical, and that the VA process is not being used in a timely manner.

Keywords: corporate bankruptcy, insolvency, voluntary administration, Australian public companies

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Routledge, James and Morrison, David S., Voluntary Administration: Patterns of Corporate Decline. C&S Law Journal, Vol. 27, p. 95, 2009, University of Queensland TC Beirne School of Law Research Paper No. 09-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1441604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
F Daniel , F T Lohrke , T Franz , C J Fornaciari , R A Turner
Slack Resources and Firm Performance: A Meta-analysis
Journal of Business Research , volume 57 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Smith , C Graves
Corporate Turnaround and Financial Distress
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 304 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Finkelstein , D C Hambrick
Top Management Team Tenure and Organizational Outcomes: The Moderating Role of Managerial Discretion
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 484 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Daniel
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
478
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,486
RANK
136,930
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies