Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Compensation Contracts and Firm Performance in Uncertain Environments Empirical Evidence for Adjusting Pay-Performance Sensitivity

37 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2009

Joanna L.Y. Ho

University of California, Irvine - Accounting Area

Ling-Chu Lee

National Pingtung Institute of Commerce

Anne Wu

National Chengchi University (Taipei)

Date Written: July 31, 2009

Abstract

Agency theory argues that pay-performance sensitivity should be negatively associated with risk. Yet, empirical studies have reported mixed findings on this relationship, which may be attributable to such confounding factors as different levels of delegation and monitoring costs. Extending prior research, we use data from the proprietary database of a major car dealership in Taiwan to examine the relationships among risk, employee compensation contract design, and firm performance. Results show that pay-performance sensitivity (incentive) for salespersons is negatively associated with risk (i.e., volatility of sales volume), which supports the prediction of agency theory. Importantly, findings indicate that branch managers who adjust salespersons’ pay-performance sensitivity consistent with the suggestion of agency theory perform better than those who do not make prompt or sufficient adjustments.

Keywords: Risk, Compensation, Pay-performance Sensitivity, Performance

JEL Classification: M49, M52

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Joanna L.Y. and Lee, Ling-Chu and Wu, Anne, Employee Compensation Contracts and Firm Performance in Uncertain Environments Empirical Evidence for Adjusting Pay-Performance Sensitivity (July 31, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1441882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1441882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A ; J Abernethy , Bouwens; And L , Lent
Determinants of Control System Design in Divisionalized Firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 545 - 70 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Abowd
Does Performance-Based Managerial Compensation Affect Corporate Performance?
Industrial and Labor Relations Review , volume 43 , p. 52 - 73 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Aggarwal , And A , Samwick
The Other Side of the Trade-off: The Impact of Risk on Executive Compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Allen , D Lueck
Risk Preferences and the Economics of Contracts
The American Economic Review , volume 85 , p. 447 - 51 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,336
RANK
259,422
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Performance Measure Properties and the Effects of Incentive Contracts

By Jan Bouwens and Laurence Van Lent

How Changes in Compensation Plans Affect Employee Performance, Recruitment and Retention - An Empirical Study of a Car Dealership

By Joanna L.y. Ho, Anne Wu, ...

Subjectivity in Professionals' Incentive Systems: Differences between Promotion- and Performance-Based Assessments

By Jasmijn C. Bol and Justin Leiby

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies