Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Capital Communication: Evidence from Social and Sustainability Reporting

Journal of Intellectual Capital, 2012; https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/14691931211276124/full/html

Posted: 3 Aug 2009

Emilio Passetti

University of Pisa - Dipartimento di Economia Aziendale

Andrea Tenucci

Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna

Lino Cinquini

Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies - Institute of Management

Marco Frey

Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna - Institute of Management; IEFE Università Bocconi

Date Written: August 3, 2009

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the level and quality of intellectual capital information communicated through social and sustainability report for a sample of 37 Italian listed company over two years (2005 and 2006). The study use the resource based theory to explain the relationship between corporate social responsibility and intellectual capital. Content analysis is applied through a multidimensional framework composed by three main disclosure profiles (time orientation, nature and type of information) which permits to analyse in depth the quality of intellectual capital information. The results highlight significant and increasing presence of intellectual capital information in CSR reports which is communicated principally in non financial, quantitative and non time specific terms. Human capital is the most reported category followed by relational and organisational capital. There are many similarities between the two typology of report contributing to the ongoing debate on corporate reporting practices. The results suggest that the integration between IC report and CSR report is a plausible issue and that could be useful to enhance the transparency and the understanding of company processes and activities both for internal and external stakeholders. Very few studies have analysed the intellectual capital in CSR report in a-theoretical and mono-dimensional way. Moreover the resource base theory has been scarcely applied to explain the disclosure of intellectual capital even if there are several similarities between the two perspectives.

Keywords: intellectual capital, disclosure, social and sustainability reporting, resource based view, corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Passetti, Emilio and Tenucci, Andrea and Cinquini, Lino and Frey, Marco, Intellectual Capital Communication: Evidence from Social and Sustainability Reporting (August 3, 2009). Journal of Intellectual Capital, 2012; https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/14691931211276124/full/html , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1443163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1443163
 Not Available for Download
101 References
S Abhayawansa , I Abeysekera
An explanation of human capital disclosure from the resource-based perspective
Journal of Human Resource Costing and Accounting , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 64 Posted: 2008
Crossref
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
An empirical investigation of annual reporting trends of intellectual capital in Sri Lanka
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 151 - 163 Posted: 2005
Crossref
I Abeysekera
The project of intellectual capital disclosure: researching the research
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 77 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Improving Business Reporting -A Customer Focus: Meeting the Information Needs of Investors and Creditors Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Gholamhossein Mehralian , Hamid Reza Rasekh , Peyman Akhavan , Ali Rajabzadeh Ghatari
Prioritization of intellectual capital indicators in knowledge-based industries: Evidence from pharmaceutical industry
International Journal of Information Management , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 209 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Priyanka Jain , Vishal Vyas , Ankur Roy
Exploring the mediating role of intellectual capital and competitive advantage on the relation between CSR and financial performance in SMEs
Social Responsibility Journal , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Stefania Veltri
Do Stakeholder Expectations Shape Organizational Intellectual Capital Reports?
Knowledge and Process Management , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 177 Posted: 2014
Crossref
America Alvarez
Corporate response to human resource disclosure recommendations
Social Responsibility Journal , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 306 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,373
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

An Explanation of Human Capital Disclosure from the Resource Based Perspective

By Subhash Asanga Abhayawansa and Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Managing Human Capital in a Privately Owned Public Hotel Chain

By Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Prioritization of Intellectual Capital Indicators in Knowledge-Based Industries: Evidence from Pharmaceutical Industry

By Gholamhossein Mehralian, Hamid Reza Rasekh, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies