Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Market Competition and International Orientation on Management Control Systems’ Use by Emerging Market Publicly Listed Companies

AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

47 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2009 Last revised: 17 Aug 2009

Neale Gilbert O'Connor

affiliation not provided to SSRN; La Trobe University, Faculty of Business, Economics and Law, Students

Sandra C. Vera-Munoz

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Francis Chan

Hong Kong Shue Yan University

Date Written: August 2, 2009

Abstract

We examine the effects of market competition and international orientation on management control systems’ use by emerging market Public Listed Companies (PLCs). Our inquiry focuses specifically on China because this country is the world’s largest annual source of exports from among emerging market countries. We examine management control systems whose widespread use by Chinese PLCs has been documented by prior accounting research: formal procedures, strategic planning, approval procedures, budget targets, participative budgeting and performance evaluation. We provide empirical evidence that the association between two specific types of market competition (foreign entrants’ competition and customers’ buying power) and management control systems’ use depends on whether the PLCs compete predominantly in the domestic or international market. We discuss implications of our findings and provide some directions for future research.

Keywords: management control systems, foreign entrants’ competition, customers’ buying power, international orientation

JEL Classification: D21, M40, M46, M47, M41

Suggested Citation:

O'Connor, Neale Gilbert and O'Connor, Neale Gilbert and Vera-Munoz, Sandra C. and Chan, Francis, The Effects of Market Competition and International Orientation on Management Control Systems’ Use by Emerging Market Publicly Listed Companies (August 2, 2009). AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1443202 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1443202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
The impact of manufacturing flexibility on management control system design. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 241 - 258 Posted: 1995
Crossref
H E Aldrich
Organizations and Environments Posted: 1979
S W Anderson , H C Dekker
Management control for market transactions: The relation between transaction costs, incomplete contract design and subsequent performance
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 12 , p. 1734 - 1752 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S W Anderson , W N Lanen
Economic Transition, Strategy and the Evolution of Management Accounting Practices: The Case of India, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 24 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 379 - 412 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Youchao Tan , Cheng Zeng , Tamer Elshandidy
Risk Disclosures, International Orientation, and Share Price Informativeness: Evidence from China
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 29, 81-102, 2017 · 49 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2018 · Downloads: 90
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
613
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,688
RANK
100,411
1 Citations
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Management Accounting Systems Adoption Decisions: Evidence and Performance Implications from Startup Companies

By Tony Davila and George Foster

Introducing the First Management Control Systems: Evidence from the Retail Sector

By Tatiana Sandino

Financial Statement and Projection Preparation in Start-Up Ventures

By Gavin Cassar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies