Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Challenges of Nigerian Economy Under Her Present Day Audit Committees

24 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2009 Last revised: 1 Sep 2009

Atim Esang

affiliation not provided to SSRN; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Eyong I. Ogbada

Kogi State University

Orok Ekpo Orok-Duke

Cross River University of Technology (CRUTECH)

Date Written: August 5, 2009

Abstract

Following the success of Audit Commission in the United State of America, it was introduced in Nigeria through the promulgation of Companies and Allied Matters. Act CAMD ‘90 (now CAMA 2004). So far, the compliance with the Act is not in doubt as seen in published accounts of quoted companies. What is left is for audit committees to justify their establishment and existence by not failing to check corporate failures and malpractices as was intended. The major constraints to the effectiveness of these audit committees which include deficiencies in the enabling laws and the lack-lust attitude of regulatory and professional bodies on the subject-matter in Nigeria have been identified. Suggestions that will, hopefully, reinvigorate the audit committees for effectiveness in Nigeria have also been proffered. These include appointing people of high integrity with the requisite qualifications and experience of the companies’ industry and financial arena: effective enlightenment of all stakeholders and a comprehensive review of CAMD ‘90 (now CAMA 2004), incorporating inputs from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to reflect our local realities and peculiarities. Overhauling the audit committees is even more impelling with the privatization and globalization currents. The adoption, and adaptation, of generally accepted managerial practices for effective corporate governance to our local context would facilitate the integration of Nigerian enterprises into the realm of international business.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Nigerian Economy, Regulatory Bodies, Professional Act

JEL Classification: A12

Suggested Citation:

Esang, Atim and Esang, Atim and Ogbada, Eyong I. and Orok-Duke, Orok Ekpo, The Challenges of Nigerian Economy Under Her Present Day Audit Committees (August 5, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1444255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1444255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
American Institute of Certified and Public Accountants Executive Committee Statement on Audit Committees of Board of Directors
Journal of Accountancy. P , volume 10 Posted: 1967-09
J L &amp; R J Armitage , Bradley
Audit Committees. The Nigeria Accountant Posted: 2004-01
Public Policy Corporate Audit Committees: Case Study Evidence of Current Practice
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Research Programme , volume 35 Posted: 2004-03-29
Corporate Governance and Audit Committees: A Survey of Current Attitudes
Inaugural Meeting of ACI on 7 th October Posted: 2003-07
Load more
2 Citations
Zandile Virtue Dlamini , Emmanuel Mutambara , Akwesi Assensoh-Kodua
Establishing the relationship between an effective audit committee and infusion of a good control environment
Corporate Board role duties and composition , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 52 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Basiru Haliru
Graduate Unemployment in Nigeria: A Case of Sokoto Metropolis, Sokoto
84 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 344
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,152
RANK
211,623
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies