Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Successes in Long-Term Implementation of Balanced Scorecard: A Healthcare Organization Study

AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

53 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2009 Last revised: 13 Dec 2009

Wen-Cheng Chang

Taiwan Buddhist Tzu Chi Foundation

Tsuilin Kuo

Fu-Jen Catholic University

Anne Wu

National Chengchi University (Taipei)

Date Written: August 6, 2009

Abstract

Measuring organizational success is a continuous challenge for both academics and practitioners. Even though studies seem to support that the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) is widely used in many different organizations, few reports identify critical success factors that can maximize the benefits, and overcome certain serious predicaments faced by different BSC implementation phases in the long run. This study is dedicated to the question of how to reflect the successive phases in the evolution of the BSC implementation for the largest Presbyterian hospital system in Taiwan. We discuss four phases in implementing BSC from 2001 to 2008, and examine the proposed phases and the activities performed in each phase. Four stages can be distinguished: (1) the planning and designing; (2) weighting and evaluating the strategic performance measures; (3) aligning the strategic business units and strategic support units; and (4) achieving longitudinal performances and cultural changes. Our study also elaborates the experience and results of monitoring and guiding organizational performance toward a long-term dynamic realization of an overall goal from the perspective of healthcare executives, while exploring managerial guidance for similar implementations. These findings can be generalized for other organizations to adopt or consider adopting the BSC.

Keywords: Balanced scorecard, healthcare organization, strategic management, performance measurement, longitudinal study

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Wen-Cheng and Kuo, Tsuilin and Wu, Anne, The Successes in Long-Term Implementation of Balanced Scorecard: A Healthcare Organization Study (August 6, 2009). AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1444671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1444671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
A Ahn
Applying the balanced scorecard concept: An experience report
Long Range Planning , volume 34 , p. 243 - 253 Posted: 2001
Crossref
E Albayrak , Y C
Using analytic hierarchy process (AHP) to improve human performance: An application of multiple criteria decision making problem
Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 491 - 503 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Baddeley
The magical number seven: Still magic after all these years? Psychological Review , p. 353 - 356 Posted: 1994-04
Crossref
R D Banker , H Chang , M J Pizzini
The balanced scorecard: Judgmental effects of performance measures linked to strategy
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
I. Rezaeinejad
MARKETING STRATEGY FORMATION UNDER SANCTION: UTILIZING BALANCED SCORECARD AND HOSHIN KANRI MODELS IN THE IRAN KHODRO COMPANY’S REGIONAL PASSENGER CAR MARKETS
Strategic decisions and risk management , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 152 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
818
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,475
RANK
68,972
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Descriptive Analysis on the Implementation of Balanced Scorecards in German-Speaking Countries

By Gerhard Speckbacher, Jürgen Bischof, ...

Risk Management and Calculative Cultures

By Anette Mikes

The Roles of Degree of Competition and Types of Business Strategies in Adopting Multiple Performance Measurement Practices: Some Reflections from Bangladesh

By Habib-uz-zaman Khan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies