Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simultaneous Presence of Different Domestic GAAPs and Investors’ Limited Attention Bias in U.S. Equity Market: Implication of Convergence

47 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2009

Sabrina Chi

University of California, Irvine

Date Written: July 25, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines how simultaneous presence of domestic accounting standards of various countries affects market reactions to firms’ earnings announcements and subsequent post-earnings announcement drifts (PEAD) in U.S market. Drawing from the finance and accounting literatures on investors’ limited attention bias, I posit that the presence of fewer multiple domestic GAAPs reduces investors’ cognitive burdens to analyze earnings of firms from different countries and thus results in less distraction and stock mispricing when investors respond to firms’ earnings news. I use the number of domestic GAAPs of earnings announced on a given day as the proxy for extent of simultaneous presence of domestic GAAPs and test the incremental effects of the number of domestic GAAPs on initial market reactions to earnings and on PEAD of U.S. and non-U.S. firms. I find that the presence of fewer different domestic GAAPs yields higher earnings response coefficients and sensitivity of trading volume to firms’ earnings news and induces a smaller incremental effect on PEAD. A hedge portfolio based on PEAD on earnings announcement days with fewer domestic GAAPs is less profitable than on announcement days with more domestic GAAPs. The results indicate that the presence of fewer domestic GAAPs, independent of any impact on the quality of accounting standards, facilitates investment decision making and improves market efficiency by mitigating investors’ limited attention bias. In addition, the findings provide the important implication for the current movement of convergence of domestic accounting standards. This is also the first empirical paper to examine the relation between different domestic GAAPs and investors' limited attention bias.

Keywords: International Accounting, Limtied Attention Bias

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44

Suggested Citation:

Chi, Sabrina, Simultaneous Presence of Different Domestic GAAPs and Investors’ Limited Attention Bias in U.S. Equity Market: Implication of Convergence (July 25, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1444720 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1444720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , A Riedl
Market reaction to the IFRS adoption in Europe, Working Paper Posted: 2008
H Ashabugh
Non-U.S. Firms' Accounting Standard Choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , p. 129 - 53 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 451 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: the Impact on foreign Analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Rita W. Y. Yip , Danqing Young
Does Mandatory IFRS Adoption Improve Information Comparability?
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 5 , p. 1767 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Jenice J. Prather-Kinsey , Paul Tanyi
The Market Reaction to SEC IFRS-Related Announcements: The Case of American Depository Receipt (ADR) Firms in the U.S.
Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming · 47 Pages · Posted: 3 Apr 2014 · Downloads: 279
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,633
RANK
354,141
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies