Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing the Use of Quality Costs in TQM Environments: Evidence from Japan

AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

44 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2009 Last revised: 10 Dec 2009

Takehisa Kajiwara

Kobe University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Date Written: December 2009

Abstract

This paper examined some of the factors that influence the use of quality costs in TQM (Total Quality Management) environments by using survey data collected from Japanese manufacturing firms. The management accounting and quality management literatures suggest that TQM requires a greater emphasis on nonfinancial performance measures, such as defect rates, cycle time, and customer satisfaction, in order to identify the sources of defects, monitor the consequences of improvement activities, communicate strategic goals, and motivate employees to improve the quality of products and process. Some argue that traditional management accounting practices based on mainly financial performance data are too slow and aggregated to support TQM practices and nonfinancial performance measures should be emphasized to overcome the shortcomings of traditional financial based performance measures. Contrary to previous study, this study indicates that quality costs are used in particular situations even in TQM environments. Specifically, the results show that firms with high degree of quality risk, shortened product development cycles, inspections and interdependence among units are likely to use quality costs in TQM environments. This study contributes to existing literatures by providing empirical evidence on the factors influencing the use of quality costs in TQM environments. The results of this study provide a new insight about the choice of performance measures in TQM environments.

Keywords: Total quality management, quality costs, conformance costs, nonconformance costs

JEL Classification: M46, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Kajiwara, Takehisa, Factors Influencing the Use of Quality Costs in TQM Environments: Evidence from Japan (December 2009). AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1444763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1444763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
M A Abernathy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R D Banker , S M Datar
Precision, and linear aggregation of signals for performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R D Banker , G Porter , R G Schroeder
Reporting manufacturing performance measures to workers: An empirical study
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 33 - 55 Posted: 1993
R M Bushman , R J Indjejikian , A Smith
Aggregate performance measures in business unit manager compensation: The role of intrafirm interdependencies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
800
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,261
RANK
71,029
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies