Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation into the Diffusion of Cost and Management Accounting Innovations in Australia

AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

45 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2009

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: August 7, 2009

Abstract

Contemporary studies suggest that the take-up of most of recent management accounting innovations still lag behind those of traditional systems. However, except few (e.g. activity-based costing and balanced scorecard) other management accounting innovations relatively received less publicity in the literature. So, it is not very clear what the other main management accounting innovations of the past three decades (both from academic and practitioner perspectives) are.

Performing a historical review of the development of cost and management accounting innovations, this paper addresses the major developments of management accounting innovations in the literature and then examines the extent of the introduction, the diffusion and the levels of organisational satisfaction with management accounting techniques in Australia over the past decades.

The historical review of the development of cost and management accounting innovation in this study confirms the existence of an ongoing challenge for management accounting techniques over time in terms of coping with the requirements of other developments/innovations such as technological changes and innovations in manufacturing systems and information systems in organisations. According to the findings, despite the introduction of a considerable number of management accounting innovations during the past three decades, the majority of organisations in Australia (more than 50%) are reluctant to implement new management accounting techniques and at the same time are unhappy with their implemented management accounting techniques. However, according to the findings, there has been a positive development (from 2003 to 2007) in terms of the extent of organisations’ satisfactions with their implemented management accounting innovations.

Keywords: ABC, ABM, BSC, Target costing, JIT, Strategic management, and management accounting innovations

JEL Classification: M46

Suggested Citation:

Askarany, Davood, An Investigation into the Diffusion of Cost and Management Accounting Innovations in Australia (August 7, 2009). AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1445439 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1445439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
Management accounting practices in the British food and drinks industry
British Food Journal , volume 108 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S M Adam , A J Fred
Extent of ABC Use and Its Consequence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 533 - 566 Posted: 2008
M Al-Omiri , C Drury
Organizational and behavioural factors influencing the adoption and success of ABC in the UK. Cost Management 21 Posted: 2007
M Al-Omiri , C Drury
A survey of factors influencing the choice of product costing systems in UK organizations
Management Accounting Research , volume 18 , p. 399 - 424 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
907
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,577
RANK
59,898
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies