Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contractual Relations and Organizational Structure in Franchising – Empirical Evidence from Germany

Zeitschrift für Betriebswirtschaft, Vol. 81, No. 4, pp. 393-421

27 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2009 Last revised: 5 May 2011

Anna Rohlfing-Bastian

Goethe University Frankfurt

Philipp Sturm

University of Tübingen

Date Written: August 7, 2009

Abstract

In this paper, we employ a new dataset based on a sample of 123 franchise systems originating from Germany to empirically test hypotheses stemming from agency theory and capital scarcity considerations on the contractual relations and the organizational structure in franchising. We include proxies for the franchisor’s capital scarcity as well as for moral hazard on the franchisee’s and the franchisor’s side. Furthermore, we distinguish between initial and ongoing franchisor support. Our results indicate that agency models based on double moral hazard do explain the design of franchise contracts and the organizational structure in terms of the proportion of franchised outlets. We find that the incentive component of the franchise contract (the royalty rate) is not influenced by moral hazard on the franchisee’s side, but rather by moral hazard on the franchisor’s side. Furthermore, the proportion franchised is strongly influenced by moral hazard on the franchisee’s side. Hence, after providing incentives to outlet managers by turning them into franchisees, thereby granting them residual claimancy, the royalty rate mainly serves to ensure ongoing franchisor input. The franchisor’s capital scarcity influences the fixed fee in franchise contracts and the proportion of franchised outlets, thus supporting standard capital scarcity arguments.

Keywords: Franchising, Double Moral Hazard, Incentive Contracts, Capital Scarcity

JEL Classification: L14, L22, M55

Suggested Citation:

Rohlfing-Bastian, Anna and Sturm, Philipp, Contractual Relations and Organizational Structure in Franchising – Empirical Evidence from Germany (August 7, 2009). Zeitschrift für Betriebswirtschaft, Vol. 81, No. 4, pp. 393-421, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1445408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,040
RANK
282,998
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Dynamics of Franchise Contracting: Evidence from Panel Data

By Francine Lafontaine and Kathryn L. Shaw

Targeting Managerial Control: Evidence from Franchising

By Francine Lafontaine and Kathryn L. Shaw

The Economics of Franchise Contracts

By Benjamin Klein

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies