Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Information Globalization and Foreign Investment Decisions

Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research,11 (2), 2012

42 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2009 Last revised: 13 Mar 2014

Dan Amiram

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Date Written: August 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper investigates the association between the adoption of international accounting standards and foreign investment decisions. Prior research suggests that information asymmetries between local and foreign investors and behavioral biases caused by unfamiliarity of the foreign markets contribute to investors preferring to invest in their home markets. Because one of the goals of the adoption of international accounting standards is to establish a high quality, internationally familiar set of accounting standards, I predict that foreign investments will increase in countries that adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) after the adoption and that this increase is driven by the familiarity of IFRS. I find that foreign equity portfolio investments (FPI) increase in countries that adopt IFRS. More importantly, I find that this relation is driven by foreign investors from countries that also use IFRS. Moreover, the effect of accounting familiarity is more pronounced when investor and investee countries share language, legal origin, culture, and region. I also find that countries with lower corruption and better investor protection experience larger increases in FPI after they adopt IFRS relative to other IFRS users. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that familiar accounting information drives foreign investment decisions.

Keywords: Foreign portfolio investments, international accounting, IFRS, familiarity, information asymmetry, home bias, foreign bias, cross-border investments.

JEL Classification: M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Amiram, Dan, Financial Information Globalization and Foreign Investment Decisions (August 1, 2012). Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research,11 (2), 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1446522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1446522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
D Amiram , M M Frank
The effects of the taxation of dividends on the allocation of foreign portfolio investment around the world, Working Paper
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 Posted: 2006
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang , C D Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Beneish , B Miller , T Yohn
The effect of IFRS adoption on cross-border investment in equity and debt markets Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,535
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,073
RANK
28,049
16 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies