Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Disclosure and Timeliness of Earnings Announcement: An Empirical Study

44 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2009

Xiongyuan Wang

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Jun Gu

Department of Accounting and Finance, Lancaster University Management School; Department of Accounting, School of Economics, Shenzhen University

Date Written: August 13, 2009

Abstract

We investigate the influence of management disclosure to the timeliness of earnings announcement based on the Scheduled Disclosure Policy in China as well as the requirements on Earnings Predict and Express. Our finding suggests that the traditional timing patterns still remain in China market, but differs from most other countries that the timing patterns follow the random walk process, the timing pattern in China is based on the scheduled disclosure date. In addition, managerial disclosure can significantly affect the timing patterns. Our evidence shows that the releasing of Earnings Predict can significantly enlarge the reporting lags of the annual report; but find little evidence on the influence from Earnings Express. In addition, we find evidence that the timing patterns of annual and first quarter report next years are related due to their closing on time. Further study shows that this relationship can sometimes challenge the traditional timing patterns. To optimize the disclosure profit, managers can sometimes sacrifice their signals as good news that should be announced earlier rationally. Management disclosure, as key determinants of the timeliness of annual reports, shows significant influence on this relationship as well.

Keywords: Scheduled Disclosure Policy, managerial disclosure, timeliness, Earnings Predict and Express, timing patterns

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xiongyuan and Gu, Jun and Gu, Jun, Management Disclosure and Timeliness of Earnings Announcement: An Empirical Study (August 13, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1451236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1451236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,248
RANK
355,843
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies