Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Steps of Implementing Target Costing

10 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2009 Last revised: 3 Feb 2014

Mahmud Hematfar

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Borujerd Branch

Alireza Sanati-arasteh

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Hamedan Branch

Saeid Nooryan

Social Security Organization-Iran

Date Written: April 17, 2013

Abstract

Target costing has a history of more than 40 years in the Japanese industry. In 1959, Toyota developed the preliminary target costing approach. Although many manufacturers in Japan use target costing, the system used at Toyota Motor Corporation is the oldest and considered by many the most technically advanced. While the idea of systematic cost reduction had existed at Toyota since it was founded, the process was first codified in the mid-1960s, when the firm set itself the objective of producing a $1,000 car (Cooper, 2002). Most managements in the United States and the world, however, do not know enough about target costing to understand its importance and often underestimate the power of target costing as a serious competitive tool. When general managers read the world 'costing' they naturally assume it is a topic for their finance or accounting staff. They misunderestimate that target costing is really a systematic profit and cost management process. This article begins with the role management accounting, definition of target costing and an overview of the target costing process. It than describes the steps that are necessary to implement target costing.

Keywords: target costing, cost management, costing, management accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Hematfar, Mahmud and Sanati-arasteh, Alireza and Nooryan, Saeid, The Steps of Implementing Target Costing (April 17, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1455184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1455184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,125
RANK
5,641
2 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies