Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Added Tax Administration in Ethiopia: A Reflection of Problems

UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2009-27

Tax Research, Vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 145-168, 2008

24 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2009

Wollela Abehodie Yesegat

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

This paper examines VAT administration in Ethiopia and identifies key problems including lack of sufficient number of skilled personnel and gaps in the administration in such areas as refunding, invoicing and filing requirements. The paper suggests that in Ethiopia attempting to implement what is legislated in the main areas (such as refunds) deserves the government’s due attention. The study also emphasises the need to strengthen the administration capacity in general and the tax audit program in particular. Furthermore, the paper assesses the assignment of VAT revenue to regional governments and the decentralisation of its administration as a way forward for future research.

Keywords: Taxation, VAT administration

Suggested Citation:

Yesegat, Wollela Abehodie, Value Added Tax Administration in Ethiopia: A Reflection of Problems (2008). UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2009-27, Tax Research, Vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 145-168, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1455403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R M Bird
Value added taxes in developing and transitional countries: Lessons and questions Posted: 2005-11
R M Bird
Administrative dimensions of tax reform
Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 134 - 150 Posted: 2004
R Bird
Sub-national revenues: Realities and prospects', Fiscal Policy Training Program, Andrew Young School of Policy Studies Posted: 2001-07-23
R M Bird
The administrative dimension of tax reform in developing countries
Tax Reform in Developing Countries , p. 315 - 346 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,009
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,979
RANK
9,608
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Law & Justice Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Coordinating Tariff Reduction and Domestic Tax Reform

By Michael Keen and Jenny E. Ligthart

On Selective Indirect Tax Reform in Developing Countries

By M. Shahe Emran and Joseph E. Stiglitz

Tax Revenue and (or?) Trade Liberalization

By Thomas Baunsgaard and Michael Keen

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies