Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Average Tax Rates Under the CCCTB and Possible Methods for International Loss-Offset

25 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2009

Andreas Oestreicher

University of Göttingen

Reinald Koch

Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt

Date Written: October 1, 2008

Abstract

This paper provides an assessment of the potential consequences for average corporate tax rates that would result from implementation of a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) as proposed by the European Commission, and of possible methods for achieving an EU-wide loss-offset for multinational groups. To this end, we apply a comparative-static micro-simulation approach based on ten-year data for a sample of 119,645 European domestic and multinational groups taken from the AMADEUS database. We find that through making CCCTB mandatory in the EU, the extension of intra-group loss-offset possibilities and use of formula apportionment would enhance the attractiveness of the EU as an investment location. The mean of the average tax rates in the member states would be reduced by 0.77 per cent for domestic groups and by 2.15 per cent for multinational groups. Furthermore, the paper reveals that a mandatory CCCTB would reduce the variation in average tax rates across the member states as well as the existing differences among domestic and multinational groups. An optional CCCTB, however, would increase the inter-jurisdictional variations between average tax rates and favours multinational groups, thus creating incentives for cross-border investment. The methods for cross-border group relief considered here would constitute less efficient mechanisms for achieving loss-offset than a CCCTB. Our findings show that these alternative loss-offset mechanisms would not guarantee relief to the same extent and are less effective in terms of inter-jurisdictional and intersectoral neutrality. However, in contrast to optional CCCTB each of the three methods would ensure equitable treatment of domestic and multinational groups.

Keywords: international company taxation, average corporate tax rates, common consolidated corporate tax base, European Union

JEL Classification: H21, H25, F23, K34, M16

Suggested Citation:

Oestreicher, Andreas and Koch, Reinald, Corporate Average Tax Rates Under the CCCTB and Possible Methods for International Loss-Offset (October 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1456373 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1456373
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
E Bartelsmann , R Beetsma
Why pay more? Corporate tax avoidance through transfer pricing in OECD countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 2225 - 2252 Posted: 2003
Crossref
W Buijink , B Jannsen , Y Schols
Evidence of the effect of domicile on corporate average effective tax rate in the European Union Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Clausing
Tax-motivated transfer pricing and US intrafirm trade prices
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 2207 - 2223 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J H Collins , D A Shackelford
Foreign Tax Credit Limitations and Preferred Stock Issuances
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 103 - 124 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,739
RANK
162,563
7 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Fiscal Paradise: Foreign Tax Havens and American Business

By James R. Hines Jr. and Eric M. Rice

Tax Policy and Foreign Direct Investment

By David G. Hartman

Altered States: Taxes and the Location of Foreign Direct Investment in America

By James R. Hines Jr.

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies