Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Voting and Directors’ Remuneration Report Legislation: Say on Pay in the UK

AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

40 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2009

Martin Conyon

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; Bentley University

Graham Sadler

Coventry University

Date Written: August 19, 2009

Abstract

This paper investigates shareholder voting in the UK. The Directors’ Remuneration Report (DRR) Regulations of 2002 gave shareholders a mandatory non-binding vote on boardroom pay. First, using data on about 50,000 resolutions over the period 2002 to 2007 we find that less than 10% of shareholders abstain or vote against the mandated Directors’ Remuneration Report (DRR) resolution. Second, investors are more likely to vote against DRR resolutions compared to non-pay resolutions. Third, shareholders are more likely to vote against general executive pay resolutions, such as stock options, long-term incentive plans and bonus resolutions compared to non-pay resolutions. Forth, firms with higher CEO pay attract greater voting dissent. Fifth, there is little evidence that CEO pay is lower in firms that previously experienced high levels of shareholder dissent. In addition, there is little evidence that the equity pay-mix, representing better owner-manager alignment, is greater in such firms. Currently, we find limited evidence that, on average, ‘say on pay’ materially alters the subsequent level and design of CEO compensation.

Keywords: Say on Pay, CEO pay, Shareholder voting

JEL Classification: G35

Suggested Citation:

Conyon, Martin and Sadler, Graham, Shareholder Voting and Directors’ Remuneration Report Legislation: Say on Pay in the UK (August 19, 2009). AAA 2010 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1457921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1457921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Directors' Remuneration Report
Crossref
The mean, standard deviation and inter-quartile range (p25 to p75) are reported. Resolutions are (1) Resolutions about directors: e.g. the election or re-election of a director. (2) Resolutions about mergers and acquisitions: e.g. approving a merger or disposal of an asset
This table shows shareholder dissent by company resolution. Dissent is measured as the percentage of votes against the resolution plus the percentage of votes abstained
bonus or longterm incentive plan; to approve changes to share option or long term incentive plans
Resolutions relating to remuneration: e.g. to approve a share option
C R Alexander , M A Chen , D J Seppi , C S Spatt
The Role of Advisory Services in Proxy Voting
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
10 Citations
Kym Maree Sheehan
Say on Pay and the Outrage Constraint
45 Pages · Posted: 20 Sep 2010 · Downloads: 530
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vanessa Serret , Sylvie Berthelot , Michel Coulmont
Les facteurs déterminants de la mise en place du Say on Pay au Canada
Finance Contrôle Stratégie , issue 19-2 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Helmut M. Dietl , Tobias Duschl , Markus Lang
Executive Pay Regulation: What Regulators, Shareholders, and Managers Can Learn from Major Sports Leagues
Business and Politics , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 1 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Randall S. Thomas , Christoph Van der Elst
The International Scope of Say on Pay
ECGI - Law Working Paper No. #227, Vanderbilt Law and Economics Research Paper No. 13-22 · 93 Pages · Posted: 8 Aug 2013 · Last revised: 11 Oct 2013 · Downloads: 872
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
992
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,673
RANK
52,981
10 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance and Shareholder Initiatives: Empirical Evidence

By Jonathan M. Karpoff, Paul H. Malatesta, ...

Shareholder Passivity Reexamined

By Bernard S. Black

The Impact of Shareholder Activism on Target Companies: A Survey of Empirical Findings

By Jonathan M. Karpoff

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies