Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competitive and Value Effects of Bank Privatization in Developed Countries

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2009

Isaac K. Otchere

Carleton University - Sprott School of Business

Date Written: June 2009

Abstract

A special issue of the Journal of Banking and Finance [2005] devoted to the performance of privatized banks in middle- and low-income countries shows mixed results. In this paper, we present evidence that shows that privatized banks in developed countries have experienced significant improvements in operating performance. The improvement in performance remains significant after controlling for persistence in bank performance. A comparison of the performance of privatized banks in developed and developing countries suggests that privatization has encouraged excessive risk taking among privatized banks in developing countries, with the consequence that those banks carry large non-performing assets than their counterparts in the developed countries. We also observe that consistent with the competitive effects hypothesis, investors view privatization announcements as foreshadowing bad news for rival banks.

Keywords: Banks; Privatization, Rivals’ reaction, Performance, CAMEL criteria, Developed countries

JEL Classification: G2, G3, G14

Suggested Citation:

Otchere, Isaac K., Competitive and Value Effects of Bank Privatization in Developed Countries (June 2009). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1457855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
J S Abarbanell , J P Bonin
Bank privatization in Poland: The case of Bank Slaski
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 25 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 1997
Crossref
B M Barber , J D Lyon
Detecting long run abnormal returns: The empirical power and specification of test statistic
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 41 , p. 359 - 399 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A N Berger , I Hasan , M Zhou
Bank ownership and efficiency in China: What will happen in the world's largest nation?
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , p. 113 - 130 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A N Berger , G R G Clarke , R Cull , L Klapper , G F Udell
Corporate governance and bank performance: A joint analysis of the static, selection, and dynamic effects of domestic, foreign, and state ownership
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , p. 2179 - 2221 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Isaac K. Otchere , Lemma W. Senbet , Pengcheng Zhu
Does Political Connection Distort Competition and Encourage Corporate Risk Taking? International Evidence.
Journal of Empirical Finance, Vol. 55, 2020 · 55 Pages · Posted: 15 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 76
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Morwa Makuria Balozi
The Impact of Privatization on Firm’s Performance in Tanzania (A Reflection of Financial and Profitability Status of Privatized vs Non-Privatized Firms)
25 Pages · Posted: 21 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,781
RANK
310,241
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Bank Performance, Efficiency and Ownership in Transitition Countries

By John Bonin, Paul Wachtel, ...

Bank Ownership and Performance

By Alejandro Micco, Ugo Panizza, ...

Corporate Governance and Bank Performance: A Joint Analysis of the Static, Selection, and Dynamic Effects of Domestic, Foreign, and State Ownership

By Allen N. Berger, George R. G. Clarke, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies