Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Accounting Principles Applied by the European Farm Accountancy Data Network

Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Department of Economics and Business Working Paper No. 342

16 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 1999

John Slof

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Josep M. Argilés

Universitat Pompeu Fabra

Date Written: October 1998

Abstract

In spite of its relative importance in the economy of many countries and its growing interrelationships with other sectors, agriculture has traditionally been excluded from accounting standards. Nevertheless, to support its Common Agricultural Policy, for years the European Commission has been making an effort to obtain standardized information on the financial performance and condition of farms. Through the Farm Accountancy Data Network (FADN), every year data are gathered from a rotating sample of 60.000 professional farms across all member states. FADN data collection is not structured as an accounting cycle but as an extensive questionnaire. This questionnaire refers to assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and seems to try to obtain a "true and fair view" of the financial performance and condition of the farms it surveys. However, the definitions used in the questionnaire and the way data is aggregated often appear flawed from an accounting perspective. The objective of this paper is to contrast the accounting principles implicit in the FADN questionnaire with generally accepted accounting principles, particularly those found in the IVth Directive of the European Union, on the one hand, and those recently proposed by the International Accounting Standards Committee's Steering Committee on Agriculture in its Draft Statement of Principles, on the other hand. There are two reasons why this is useful. First, it allows to make suggestions how the information provided by FADN could be more in accordance with the accepted accounting framework, and become a more valuable tool for policy makers, farmers, and other stakeholders. Second, it helps assessing the suitability of FADN to become the starting point for a European accounting standard on agriculture.

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Slof, John and Argilés Bosch, Josep Maria, An Analysis of the Accounting Principles Applied by the European Farm Accountancy Data Network (October 1998). Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Department of Economics and Business Working Paper No. 342, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=145752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.145752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R Alonso , A Serrano
Los Costes en los Procesos de Producción Agraria Posted: 1991
R Allen
Farm potential: high tech leads the average farmer's know-how
Texas Banking , volume 88 Posted: 1994
Audits of Agricultural Producers and Agricultural Cooperatives Posted: 1996
F André
Vers un renouveau de la formation économique des agriculteurs?
Économie Rurale , volume 177 , p. 53 - 56 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,895
RANK
126,012
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies