Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Impairment After Business Combination Among Jordanian Shareholding Companies

Journal of Accounting and Taxation, Vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 23-33, July 2009

11 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2009

Husam Aldeen Al-Khadash

Hashemite University - Accounting Department

Date Written: August 21, 2009

Abstract

This study examined whether external users of financial statements are capable of assessing goodwill impairment apart from management. This study aimed at investigating goodwill write-offs resulted from acquisitions among Jordanian shareholding companies in Amman Stock Exchange (ASE) during 1985-2005. This study tested for the notion that the seeds of the eventual goodwill write-off are planted at the time of the acquisition.

The likelihood of a write-off is related to an initial overpayment as indicated by acquisition characteristics as well as some of post acquisition performance indicators. The results of this study provided some support for the hypothesis that predicts the relationship between goodwill write-offs and acquisition and performance indicators. However, the study revealed that external users will not be able to assess goodwill impairment effectively within the available information and disclosure.

Keywords: goodwill, international Accounting Standards, impairment and acquisition

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M45, M47

Suggested Citation:

Al-Khadash, Husam Aldeen, Goodwill Impairment After Business Combination Among Jordanian Shareholding Companies (August 21, 2009). Journal of Accounting and Taxation, Vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 23-33, July 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1458788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
B Ayers , C Lefanowicz , J Robbinson
Do Firms Purchase the Pooling Method Posted: 2002
T Carlin , N Finch , G Ford
Goodwill Impairment-An Assessment of Disclosure Quality and Compliance Levels by Large Listed Australian Firms". Working Paper, Macquarie Graduate School of Management Posted: 2007
D Chambers
Is Goodwill Impairment Accounting Under SFAS 142 an Improvement over Systematic Amortization of Goodwill Posted: 2006
Changling Chen , Mark J. Kohlbeck , Terry D. Warfield
Goodwill Valuation Effects of the Initial Adoption of SFAS 142
Timeliness of impairment recognition: Evidence from the initial adoption of SFAS 142 C Chen, M Kohlbeck, T Warfield - Advances in Accounting, 2008 Pages: 34 Posted: 22 Apr 2004 Last revised: 2 Apr 2021
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,070
RANK
221,315
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies