Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisited: The Role of Accounting Information of LQ45 Firms on Equity Valuation After the Asian Economic Crisis

20 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2009 Last revised: 31 Jan 2010

Edwin Pranatio

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yanthi Hutagaol

BINUS BUSINESS SCHOOL; Binus Business School

Date Written: August 20, 2009

Abstract

This study aims to revisit the role of accounting information on equity valuation after the Asian economic crisis. The accounting information examined including earnings, cash flows, and book value of equity. The sample is the end of 2002 LQ45 listed in IDX during 2003-2007 period. The result shows that the accounting information plays a significant increasing role after the Asian economic crisis, in which earnings is to have a strong explanatory power, while book value of equity has a weaker value relevance. The analysis of change in cash flows shows mixed result.

Keywords: Accounting information, Valuation model, LQ45, IDX

JEL Classification: M47, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pranatio, Edwin and Hutagaol, Yanthi and Hutagaol, Yanthi, Revisited: The Role of Accounting Information of LQ45 Firms on Equity Valuation After the Asian Economic Crisis (August 20, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1458425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1458425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Konan Chan , Chan Louis , K C Jegadeesh , Narasimhan , Lakonishok
Earnings Quality and Stock Returns , volume 79 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D W Collins , E L Maydew , I S Weiss
Changes in the value-relevance of earnings and book values over the past forty years
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 39 - 67 Posted: 1997
Crossref
J Danbolt , W Rees
The valuation of European financial firms
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 1 , p. 5 - 24 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Francis , K Schipper
Have financial statements lost their relevance?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 37 , p. 319 - 343 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,356
RANK
418,383
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Regulation Fd and the Financial Information Environment

By Frank Heflin, K.r. Subramanyam, ...

Regulation Fair Disclosure and Earnings Information: Market, Analyst, and Corporate Responses

By Warren Bailey, Haitao Li, ...

Informational Effects of Regulation Fd: Evidence from Rating Agencies

By Philippe Jorion, Alfred Z. Liu, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies