Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How do Individual Investors React to Global IFRS Adoption?

AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

52 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2009 Last revised: 2 Aug 2012

Ulf Brüggemann

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

Carsten Homburg

University of Cologne

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: August 1, 2012

Abstract

We examine the impact of global IFRS adoption on cross-border equity investments by individual investors. Our proxy for cross-border equity investments is trading volume in the Open Market at Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The Open Market is a segment designed for German individual investors to trade a large selection of foreign stocks. Using a sample of 5,637 firms from 31 countries around the world, we find that stocks experience a significant increase in Open Market trading volume following mandatory adoption of IFRS. This effect is more pronounced for attention-grabbing stocks (e.g., stocks experiencing an increase in media coverage following IFRS adoption). Our results suggest that global IFRS adoption enhances cross-border equity investments by individual investors. However, this effect does not materialize equally across stocks due individual investors’ limited attention.

Keywords: Individual Investors, International Accounting, IFRS, Open Market, Cross-Border Investments

JEL Classification: G14, G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Brüggemann, Ulf and Daske, Holger and Homburg, Carsten and Pope, Peter F., How do Individual Investors React to Global IFRS Adoption? (August 1, 2012). AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1458944 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1458944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP Differences: The Impact on Foreign Analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
W Bailey , A Kumar , D Ng
Foreign Investments of U.S. Individual Investors: Causes and Consequences
Management Science , volume 54 , p. 443 - 459 Posted: 2008
Crossref
L S Bamber , O E Barron , D E Stevens
Trading Volume Around Earnings Announcements and Other Financial Reports: Theory, Research Design, Empirical Evidence, and Directions for Future Research
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , p. 431 - 471 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B M Barber , T Odean
All That Glitters: The Effect of Attention and News on the Buying Behavior of Individual and Institutional Investors
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , p. 785 - 818 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,823
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,661
RANK
10,662
21 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies