Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Valuation of R&D Expenditures in Japan

Posted: 24 Aug 2009

Pascal Nguyen

Neoma Business School; University of Technology Sydney (UTS); Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Sophie Nivoix

Université de Poitiers

Mikiharu Noma

Hitotsubashi University - Graduate School of International Corporate Strategy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 21, 2009

Abstract

The difficulty to measure the long-term benefits of R&D expenditures and the distortions induced by R&D accounting suggest that R&D-intensive firms could be undervalued. Using several methods commonly-applied to detect the abnormal returns associated with mispricing, we find no evidence that the value of R&D investments has been underestimated in the Japanese stock market. Although the performance of R&D-intensive firms appears to vary with the overall market direction, the influence of R&D expenditures in monthly cross-sectional regressions is insignificant. Portfolios sorted by R&D intensity also produce insignificant excess returns after controlling for standard risk factors. Given that R&D accounting rules in Japan are similar to those in the US, the results appear to reject the hypothesis that they are the cause of the undervaluation of R&D investments.

Keywords: R&D expenses, accounting distortions, mispricing, abnormal returns

JEL Classification: G14

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Pascal and Nivoix, Sophie and Noma, Mikiharu, The Valuation of R&D Expenditures in Japan (August 21, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1458900
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,441
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies