Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why do Countries Adopt International Financial Reporting Standards?

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 09-102

48 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2009

Karthik Ramanna

University of Oxford - Blavatnik School of Government

Ewa Sletten

The Ohio State University

Date Written: March 24, 2009

Abstract

In a sample of 102 non-European Union countries, we study variations in the decision to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). There is evidence that more powerful countries are less likely to adopt IFRS, consistent with more powerful countries being less willing to surrender standard-setting authority to an international body. There is also evidence that the likelihood of IFRS adoption at first increases and then decreases in the quality of countries’ domestic governance institutions, consistent with IFRS being adopted when governments are capable of timely decision making and when the opportunity and switching cost of domestic standards are relatively low. We do not find evidence that levels of and expected changes in foreign trade and investment flows in a country affect its adoption decision: thus, we cannot confirm that IFRS lowers information costs in more globalized economies. Consistent with the presence of network effects in IFRS adoption, we find that a country is more likely to adopt IFRS if its trade partners or countries within in its geographical region are IFRS adopters.

Keywords: IFRS, international accounting, harmonization

JEL Classification: F42, G14, G15

Suggested Citation:

Ramanna, Karthik and Sletten, Ewa, Why do Countries Adopt International Financial Reporting Standards? (March 24, 2009). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 09-102, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1460763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1460763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
C Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe. Working paper Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
--- , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
Accounting & Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
53 Citations
Deborah Zelikson , Moade Fawzi Shubita , Junjie Wu , Collins G. Ntim
Adoption of global investment performance standards: Case of ASEAN
Cogent Business & Management , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1746169 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Omar Ikbal Tawfik , Faozi A. Almaqtari , Waleed M. Al-ahdal , Abdul Aziz Abdul Rahman , Najib H. S. Farhan
The impact of board diversity on financial reporting quality in the GCC listed firms: the role of family and royal directors
Economic Research-Ekonomska Istraživanja , volume 36 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Paula Gomes dos Santos , Fábio Albuquerque
Assessing the countries’ convergence to IPSAS from a cultural perspective
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 181 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Devrimi Kaya , Andreas Seebeck
The dissemination of firm information via company register websites
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 382 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
20,199
RANK
3,852
53 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies