Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality Attributes and Performance of Malaysian Public Listed Firms

25 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2009

Radziah Mahmud

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) - Faculty of Accountancy

M. K. Ibrahim

Taibah University

Wee Ching Pok

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 24, 2009

Abstract

This study attempts to address the question whether earnings quality of Malaysian public listed firms is associated with performance. Five attributes of earnings quality namely predictive value, feedback value, timeliness, faithful representation and neutrality as well as two common financial performance measures namely returns on assets (ROA) and Tobin’s Q were examined. When ROA is used as firm performance measure, there is a positive but not significant association between the predictive value of earnings and firm performance. In relation to the feedback value of earnings and timeliness, the association between these earnings quality attributes and firm performance is found to be significantly positive. When Tobin’s Q is used as performance measure, predictive value of earnings and timeliness have positive but not significant association with firm performance. In contrast, feedback value of earnings has negative and significant association with firm performance. Hence, after controlling the effects of size, leverage and growth on firm performance, result of the study shows that earnings quality of Malaysian public listed firms has positive association with firm performance.

Keywords: predictive value, feedback value, timeliness, earnings quality, firm performance

JEL Classification: M41, C3, C33, L25

Suggested Citation:

Mahmud, Radziah and Ibrahim, Muhd Kamil and Pok, Wee Ching, Earnings Quality Attributes and Performance of Malaysian Public Listed Firms (August 24, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1460309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1460309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
K Ahmad
The timeliness of corporate reporting: A comparative study of South Asia
Advances in International Accounting , volume 16 , p. 17 - 43 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Abhijit Barua
Using the Fasb's Qualitative Characteristics in Earnings Quality Measures*
Pages: 52 Posted: 30 Sep 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jiambalvo , K R Subrahmanyam
The effect of audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
955
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,484
RANK
55,766
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies