Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Perspective on the Canadian Accounting Standards Board Exposure Draft on GAAP for Private Enterprises

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24(1), March: 129-137

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1001

Posted: 25 Aug 2009 Last revised: 11 Jun 2013

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Robert H. Colson

Grant Thornton LLP

Stephen R. Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

Stephen H. Penman

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation; Bocconi University

Gary Previts

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

James A. Ohlson

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Thomas L. Stober

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Ross L. Watts

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: August 25, 2009

Abstract

The Canadian Accounting Standards Board (AcSB) recently issued an exposure draft to adopt separate GAAP for private enterprises. This new GAAP is justified as being consistent with the current FASB/IASB conceptual framework, but is sensitive to the different cost/benefit considerations facing private entities. We view this proposal as being innovative and responsive to the differential reporting needs of private entities. In this article we explain our reasoning and conclusions on several issues raised by the exposure draft starting with a discussion about the need for a separate conceptual framework for private enterprises. We sketch a preliminary conceptual framework that could be used to develop and justify the type of changes proposed in this exposure draft. We then discuss key issues raised in the exposure draft such as reliance on historical cost as the key basis of measurement, the significant reduction in disclosure requirements for private enterprises, and stopping the emerging issues committee from providing implementation guidance (no EIC’s). We also comment on the mechanism for financing the standard setting board, the need to ensure compatibility between accounting and auditing standards, and a process for adjusting the education system to support this new private enterprise GAAP.

Keywords: Regulatory Competition, Private Enterprises, GAAP

JEL Classification: M41, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Jamal, Karim and Bloomfield, Robert J. and Christensen, Theodore E. and Colson, Robert H. and Moehrle, Stephen R. and Penman, Stephen H. and Previts, Gary J. and Ohlson, James A. and Stober, Thomas L. and Sunder, Shyam and Watts, Ross L., A Perspective on the Canadian Accounting Standards Board Exposure Draft on GAAP for Private Enterprises (August 25, 2009). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24(1), March: 129-137, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1461249
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,249
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies