Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Economy of Determining Own Tax Revenue and Selective State Taxes of Andhra Pradesh, India

The IUP Journal of Public Finance, Vol. VII, Nos. 3 & 4, pp. 83-92, August & November 2009

Posted: 26 Aug 2009

Prasant Kumar Panda

Dr. SRK Government Arts College

Date Written: August 26, 2009

Abstract

The paper seeks to analyze the political economy of determining own tax revenue and selective state taxes of Andhra Pradesh (AP), India. The study suggests that the own tax revenue and revenue from selective state taxes of AP are mainly determined by a set of economic and need-based factors, rather than political factors. The political dummies like Congress government dummy and election year dummy are insignificant in influencing the own tax revenue, and other state taxes except tax on vehicles. But in many cases the coefficients of these political dummies are found to be negative, possibly signaling that the growth in tax revenues is undermined by political power shift and compromises.

Suggested Citation:

Panda, Prasant Kumar, Political Economy of Determining Own Tax Revenue and Selective State Taxes of Andhra Pradesh, India (August 26, 2009). The IUP Journal of Public Finance, Vol. VII, Nos. 3 & 4, pp. 83-92, August & November 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1462070
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies