Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance & The Timing of Dividend Payment

Posted: 16 Sep 2009 Last revised: 1 Oct 2009

Ben Letaifa Wissal

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

Corporate governance is a great field of research. Since the dividend policy is always a puzzle, we try to develop another point of view in this domain. Thus, our objectives are twice. We identify, firstly the financial determinants which influence the moment of the distribution of dividends. Thereafter and starting from a new contractual optic, we examine the impact of the mechanisms of governance, of which in particular committee of administrators (duality of the manager as chairman and president of the board) and the ownership structure, on the moment of the distribution of dividends. By using a sample of 35 French companies listed in CAC 40 with dimensions observed running the period going from 2003 to 2008, the released results reveal the influence of size, liquidity, nature of the information paying dividends, and ratio of dividend variation on the timing of the dividend payment.

Keywords: corporate governance, timing of dividend payment, financial market, ownership structure, asymmetric information

JEL Classification: G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Wissal, Ben Letaifa, Corporate Governance & The Timing of Dividend Payment (September 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1463931
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,171
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies