Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of Accounting Restatements by Public Companies: Evidence from Kuwait

International Review of Business Research Papers, Vol. 6, No.1, pp. 513-535, February 2010

23 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2009 Last revised: 6 May 2010

Husain Y. Alyousef

Department of Communication Disorders Sciences

Ali R. Almutairi

Kuwait University

Date Written: August 28, 2009

Abstract

In Kuwait, investors and other related parties (e.g., official observers and market experts) have raised substantial concerns regarding the quality of corporate disclosures of firms restating their prior reported financial statements. In this paper, we examine the market reaction to the announcements of accounting restatements of firms enlisted in Kuwait stock exchange (KSE) for the period 2005-2008. In addition, we explore the characteristics of restating firms. Our results indicate that market participants react downwardly to the stock prices of firms announcing accounting restatements. Moreover, we find that accounting restatements are more likely to be among small firms. Also, we report that the occurrence of accounting restatements is increasing in firm age. Last, our results show partial support on the link between the likelihood of accounting restatements and firm profitability. Our findings should be important to academicians, regulators, investors, companies and audit firms.

Keywords: restatements, restating firms, prior disclosures, firm characteristics

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Alyousef, Husain Yousef and Almutairi, Ali R., An Empirical Investigation of Accounting Restatements by Public Companies: Evidence from Kuwait (August 28, 2009). International Review of Business Research Papers, Vol. 6, No.1, pp. 513-535, February 2010 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1463260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
1 Citations
Ammar Qadir Sheikh , Danish Ahmed Siddiqui
Impact of Audit Fees and Audit Firm’s Reputation on Audit Quality: Evidence from Listed Companies from Pakistan
29 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 20 May 2022 · Downloads: 978
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,557
RANK
311,586
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Restating Under the Radar? Determinants of Restatement Disclosure Choices and the Related Market Reactions

By Linda A. Myers, Susan Scholz, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies