Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Current Disclosure Status of Interim Reporting by Malaysian Companies*

20 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2009

Norhayati Alias

Lincoln University

Murray B. Clark

Lincoln University

Jamal Roudaki

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 31, 2009

Abstract

Interim reporting has become another important medium that allows listed Companies to communicate with its stakeholders. In Malaysia, accounting standards and listing requirements regulate disclosures in interim reports published by companies. This paper reports descriptive statistics of the adequacy of mandatory disclosure practices for interim reports issued by listed Malaysian companies. The interim (quarterly) reports issued by sixty companies for the period 2005 to 2007 were analysed to establish the reporting lag and the level of compliance with the disclosures mandated by FRS 134 Interim Reporting and Bursa Malaysia listing requirement Para. 2.22. An unweighted disclosure index model was developed to determine the level of compliance. Findings of the study reveal that (a) no company fully complied with all disclosure requirements; (b) some companies filed reports after the due date or allowable period had passed; (c) the length of time taken to file the report for the fourth quarter was longer than for other quarters; (d) the mean times for the filing of quarterly reports was 51 days for Q1 in all three years, 50 days for Q2 and Q3 in all three years, and 50 days for Q4 in 2005 and 2006 and 56 days for 2007; and (e) the average mean time taken to file reports for each quarter is between 50 to 56 days.

Keywords: interim reporting, mandatory disclosure, timeliness, compliance, disclosure index

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Alias, Norhayati and Clark, Murray B. and Roudaki, Jamal, The Current Disclosure Status of Interim Reporting by Malaysian Companies* (August 31, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1464465 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1464465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
K Ahmed , D Nicholls
The Impact Of Non-Financial Company Characteristics On Mandatory Disclosure Compliance In Developing Countries:The Case Of Bangladesh
THe International Journal of Accounting Education and Research , volume 29 , p. 62 - 77 Posted: 1994
A Ahmet , Ö Serife
Voluntary Disclosure in Turkey: A Study on Firms Listed in Istanbul Stock Exchange (ISE). Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 5 Posted: 2007
S A S Al-Bogami
An examination of the usefulness of interim financial report statements to investors in the Saudi Market Posted: 1996
J Annaert , M De Ceuster , R Polfliet , G Van Campenhout
too late": The case of the Belgian semi-annual earnings announcements
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 29 , p. 477 - 495 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,157
RANK
282,998
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies