Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Managers Perform for Perks?

70 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2009

Donghua Chen

Nanjing University

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Shangkun Liang

Nanjing University - School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 29, 2009

Abstract

We examine how the managerial consumptions of perquisites are determined and whether and how they impact firm value. On the one hand, if the consumptions of perks are a result of agency cost, then they likely represent managerial excesses that expropriate shareholder wealth and they destroy firm value. On the other hand, when the transaction cost of monetary compensations is high due to information asymmetry, government regulations and media scrutiny, perks can provide incentives that motivate managers to work harder to create shareholder wealth and they potentially enhance firm value. The Chinese economic environment provides a unique opportunity to examine this research topic this is of universal interest. Using manually - collected data on direct monetary compensations and perks, we find that perks are provided when the relative pay between top managers and average employees is low, in firms with high economic rent and growth. Further, perks are positively associated with future firm value, but to a much lesser extent than monetary compensations. Therefore, perks appear to motivate managers to work harder to create shareholder wealth but are not as effective as monetary compensations. Finally, the effect of perks is more pronounced for firms with high economic rent, high growth and low relative pay between top managers and average employees.

Keywords: compensations, perks, performance

JEL Classification: G30, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Donghua and Li, Oliver Zhen and Liang, Shangkun, Do Managers Perform for Perks? (August 29, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1464015 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1464015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A A Alchian , Harold Demsetz
Production, Information Costs, and Economic Organization
American Economic Review , volume 65 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
A Smith
An Inquiry into the nature and causes of the wealth of nations. London, Times Newspapers Ltd Posted: 1776
A A Berle , G C Means
The modern corporation and private property
Brace and World Posted: 1932
Load more
2 Citations
Shangkun Liang , Zhen Li , Donghua Chen , Shimin Chen
Political ranks, incentives and firm performance
China Journal of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 87 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Min Zhang , Shenghao Gao , Jenny Guan , Fuxiu Jiang
Controlling Shareholder‐Manager Collusion and Tunneling: Evidence from China
Corporate Governance: An International Review, Vol. 22, Issue 6, pp. 440-459, 2014 · 20 Pages · Posted: 30 Oct 2014 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
354
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,873
RANK
81,167
2 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies