Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Failure and Market Reactions: Evidence from China

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 Aug 2009 Last revised: 1 Sep 2009

Sharad Asthana

University of Texas-San Antonio

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Zhongxia Shelly Ye

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: August 29, 2009

Abstract

Zhongtianqin, the largest Chinese auditor in 2000, collapsed in 2001 owing to its audit failure. This study examines how the market reacted to the audit scandal in the Chinese institutional setting. Chinese investors are entitled to recover their investment losses from auditors owing to audit failure. However, civil lawsuits against auditors have not succeeded in the past. Therefore, Chinese auditors do not face the real threat of shareholder litigation. They only have the threat of costly governmental penalties for violating the regulations. Even so, we demonstrate that Chinese audit still contains both assurance and insurance values. Also, the entire market reacted to the scandal. Moreover, we show that investors differentiate audit quality in stock valuation. Finally, companies audited by international auditors suffered less value losses. This study adds to the worldwide literature on auditor failure.

Keywords: assurance effect, audit quality, auditor failure in China, domestic vs. international auditors, governmental penalties, insurance effect, market reactions, stock value

Suggested Citation:

Asthana, Sharad and Sami, Heibatollah and Ye, Zhongxia Shelly, Auditor Failure and Market Reactions: Evidence from China (August 29, 2009). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1464044
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies