Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beating Strategic Earnings Benchmarks with Non-GAAP Figures: International Evidence*

Posted: 1 Sep 2009

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

This study explores international differences in the use of one non-GAAP earnings measures to meet strategic earnings benchmarks. We hand-collect information on non-GAAP disclosures from earnings announcements press releases and find that the majority of firms report more than one non-GAAP measure in press releases. Our results reveal that all the earnings benchmarks we consider (analyst forecast, industry performance, last year’s earnings, avoid losses, and higher performance) have a positive effect on the propensity of managers to disclose one or more non-GAAP earnings measures in the earnings announcement press release. This propensity is higher in capital market-oriented jurisdictions, where a higher demand for public earnings information provides stronger incentives to use non-GAAP measures to reach the desired benchmarks. From the five earnings benchmarks studied reporting performance measures that meet analysts forecast is the strongest motivation to disclose one or more non-GAAP figures.

Keywords: strategic earnings benchmarks, non-GAAP financial measures, capital markets development

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Isidro, Helena and Marques, Ana Cristina, Beating Strategic Earnings Benchmarks with Non-GAAP Figures: International Evidence* (September 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1465677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1465677
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,867
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Gaap Versus the Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings

By Mark T Bradshaw, Matthew Moberg, ...

The Predictive Value of Expenses Excluded from 'Pro Forma' Earnings

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Russell J. Lundholm, ...

Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings

By Neil Bhattacharya, Ervin L. Black, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies