Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Financial Reporting Consequences of Conversion to IFRS: The Case of Equity-Based Compensation

48 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2009

Mary Lea McAnally

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Sean T. McGuire

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Connie D. Weaver

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

The potential conversion of accounting standards from U.S. GAAP to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) raises the issue of unknown financial reporting consequences. We consider one important accounting issue, namely equity-based compensation, and study how IFRS conversion will affect financial statements and the quality of reported numbers. The difference between the two standards is that IFRS reports tax benefits from equity-based compensation at their intrinsic value each period. This amounts to quasi fair-value accounting under IFRS compared to historic-cost accounting under GAAP. We develop and compare pro forma GAAP and IFRS accounting reports for a broad cross section of US firms. We find that IFRS conversion will significantly increase deferred tax assets and recognized tax benefits for about one-third of our sample firms. Moreover, reported tax items are more volatile under IFRS. Importantly, we find that IFRS tax items are better able to predict future cash flows. One conclusion is that IFRS improves the relevance, and thereby, the quality, of at least some reported numbers.

Keywords: IFRS, stock-options, tax benefits, relevance

JEL Classification: M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

McAnally, Mary Lea and McGuire, Sean T. and Weaver, Connie D., Assessing the Financial Reporting Consequences of Conversion to IFRS: The Case of Equity-Based Compensation (September 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1466289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1466289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Aboody , M Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: evidence from the UK.‖
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 149 - 78 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Aboody , M Barth , R Kasznik
-SFAS 123 stock-based compensation expense and equity market values
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of international reporting standards improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence.‖ Working paper Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Ahmed , C Takeda
Stock market valuation of gains and losses on commercial banks' investment securities: An empirical analysis
‖ Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 236 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,887
RANK
154,771
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies