Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Codes: Facts or Fictions? A Study of Governance Codes in Colombia

18 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2009

Julián Benavides Franco

Universidad ICESI - Finance; Universidad ICESI - Economics & Management

Date Written: September 3, 2009

Abstract

Following a requirement of the local regulator, different Colombian security issuers complied with the norm, producing a corporate governance code. This article studies the effects on accounting performance and financing decisions of Colombian firms after these firms issue their own corporate governance code. It also incorporates an analysis of the code quality and the combined effect, timing and quality, on the dependent variables. The results show that the firms’ return on assets after the code introduction improves in excess of one percent; the effect is amplified by the code quality. Additionally, the firms’ leverage increased, after the code’s introduction, in excess of five percent, when the code quality is factored in the analysis. These results suggest that controlling parties commitment to self restrain, by reducing their private benefits and/or the expropriation of non controlling parties, through the code introduction, is indeed an effective measure and that the financial markets agree, increasing their funds supply to the firms.

Keywords: Agency theory, Corporate governance, Governance codes, Accounting performance, leverage

JEL Classification: G30, M48, K22

Suggested Citation:

Benavides Franco, Julián, Governance Codes: Facts or Fictions? A Study of Governance Codes in Colombia (September 3, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1467885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1467885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Lawrence D. Brown , Marcus L. Caylor
Corporate Governance and Firm Performance
Pages: 53 Posted: 27 Sep 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Abe De Jong , Douglas Dejong , Gerard Mertens , Charles Wesley
The role of self-regulation in corporate governance: Evidence and Implications from The Netherlands Posted: 2004
Crossref
Eugene Fama , Michael Jensen
Separation of ownership and control
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 26 , p. 301 - 325 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Urbi Garay , German González , Maximiliano González , Yelhis Hernández
Índice de buen gobierno corporativo y desempeño financiero en la Bolsa de Valores de Caracas
Estudio IESA Nro , volume 24 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,902
RANK
568,179
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies