Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did Fair Valuation Depress Equity Values During the 2008 Financial Crisis?

42 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2009 Last revised: 3 Nov 2009

Claudine Madras Gartenberg

Wharton School, University of Penn

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: September 5, 2009

Abstract

We investigate the assertion that fair valuation of financial instruments exacerbated the 2008 financial crisis. We focus on the 4th quarter of 2008 following the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, the Reserve Primary fund “breaking the buck” and other adverse events. Our central finding is that firms with higher percentage of assets fair valued had higher abnormal stock returns. Both fair value level 1 and level 2 measurements are positively associated with stock returns. We show that fair valuation is widespread not only in financial firms but also in industrial firms and that the above results hold for both financial and industrial firms. We do not find evidence that these results are driven by a specific subsample, mean reversion in stock returns, anticipation of the crisis, or liquidity factors alone. Our findings are inconsistent with fair valuation depressing equity values.

Keywords: fair value, financial instruments, financial crisis, stock returns

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gartenberg, Claudine Madras and Serafeim, George, Did Fair Valuation Depress Equity Values During the 2008 Financial Crisis? (September 5, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1468824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1468824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
V Acharya , D Gale , T Yorulmazer
Rollover Risk and Market Freezes
CEPR Discussion Papers , volume 7122 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Almeida , M Campello , M Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Corporate Financial and Investment Policies when Future Financing is not Frictionless. NBER working paper 12773
_ Posted: 2009
Crossref
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
923
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,111
RANK
58,442
5 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies