Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the IASB and Auditing Standards in the Aftermath of the 2008/2009 Financial Crisis

European Law Journal, Vol. 16, No. 5, September 7, 2010

Auditing, Litigation & Tax eJournal, Vol. 2, Issue 66, September 10, 2010

25 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2009 Last revised: 19 Jul 2011

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: December 28, 2009

Abstract

The primary argument of this paper is, namely, that the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), is in need of an enforcement mechanism. In drawing attention to this argument, the paper not only proposes considerations which are to be taken into account if such a mechanism is to be implemented, but also considers areas in which the regulation of accounting standards, and auditing standards in particular, have contributed to the recent global financial crisis. The impact of such standards on pro cyclicality, the level of success achieved by the IASB and other international standard setters such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, relates to how effectively the accounting and audit standard setting is implemented.

As well as identifying the importance of convergence in contributing towards high quality audits and the consistent application of auditing and accounting standards, this paper also acknowledges the difficulties and challenges encountered in attempting to achieve a convergent framework. Furthermore, through a discussion of recommendations aimed at consolidating transparency and accounting, as proposed by the G20, ways in which accounting standards, and consequently the IASB, could contribute further to the improvement of transparency and accountability of the framework for fair value measurements and evaluation, are considered.

The absence of enforcement mechanisms, the fact that enforcement actions are carried out at national level in various EU member states, present sources of obstacles to attempts to realise the proposals put forward by the G20. This paper not only attempts to address such factors, but also to suggest ways in which the IASB, to an extent, could realise its goals. Through a consideration of two enforcement regimes in Europe, namely, Germany and the UK, two related standards which govern enforcement in Europe, principles on which harmonisation of the institutional oversight systems in Europe may be achieved , and the vital contribution made by CESR and EFRAG (the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group), this paper will consider how enforcement could be implemented by the IASB at European level.

Keywords: Supervision, Standards, IASB, EFRAG, Auditing, FASB, 2008 Financial Crisis, Enforcement

JEL Classification: M44, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, The Role of the IASB and Auditing Standards in the Aftermath of the 2008/2009 Financial Crisis (December 28, 2009). European Law Journal, Vol. 16, No. 5, September 7, 2010, Auditing, Litigation & Tax eJournal, Vol. 2, Issue 66, September 10, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1469624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Stakeholders
Meeting on IASB's IAS 39 revision -Phase I
R Ball
Accounting and Business Research International Accounting Policy Forum Basel II: Revised International Capital Framework
International Financial reporting Standards (IFRSs): Pros and Cons For Investors Posted: 2003
M T Bradshaw , G S Miller
Will Harmonizing Accounting Standards Really Harmonize Accounting? Posted: 2007
S Cascino , J Gassen
Do Harmonized Accounting Standards lead to Harmonized Accounting? German Italian Evidence Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Jochen Zimmermann , Jan-Christoph Volckmer
Accounting Firms: Global Spread with Limited Transnationalization
ZenTra Working Paper in Transnational Studies No. 11/2012 · 26 Pages · Posted: 19 Dec 2012 · Downloads: 231
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,303
RANK
35,617
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies