Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preface to: International Management Accounting in Japan: Current Status of Electronics Companies

Monden Institute of Management: Japanese Management and International Studies, Vol. 4, 2008

3 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2010

Kenji Miyamoto

Independent

Date Written: October 17, 2008

Abstract

In the interests of globalization, many companies today are establishing theories and practices for international management accounting. This book discusses the current status of international management accounting in Japan through interviews with three major electronics companies. By tracing the history of the business expansion of the three companies, as well as their transition of strategies and accompanying organizational structure, key features and details of international management accounting are faithfully described. The book is divided into two parts. Part I describes general concepts of international management accounting in global companies, while Part II analyzes the experiences of three leading electronics companies - Matsushita, Sharp and Sanyo - in international management accounting. Written in a scholarly yet accessible manner, this book will benefit both academics and industry professionals practicing in the field.

Keywords: International Management Accounting, Multicurrency Accounting Information, Budget in Global Companies, Composite Currency, Matsushita, Sharp, Sanyo

Suggested Citation:

Miyamoto, Kenji, Preface to: International Management Accounting in Japan: Current Status of Electronics Companies (October 17, 2008). Monden Institute of Management: Japanese Management and International Studies, Vol. 4, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1470525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,259
RANK
518,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies