Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Effect of Corporate International Diversification on Shareholder-Bondholder Value

46 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2009

Kingsley O. Olibe

Kansas State University

Date Written: September 8, 2009

Abstract

This study investigates whether international diversification, measured as foreign assets and foreign sales increase shareholder value while decreasing bondholder value (i.e., whether there is a diversification discount). Events such as foreign expansion may indeed increase shareholder value while decreasing bondholder value (hypothesis). The study also considers the extent to which debt-size in a firm’s capital structure plays a role in valuation of foreign assets and foreign sales. Using foreign assets and foreign sales data, the study reports three important results. First, shareholder value is positively related to foreign involvement, casting doubt on global discount, consistent with evidence in Santos et al. (2003), suggesting that significant wealth gains accrue to shareholders of international diversified firms. Second, bondholder value is inversely associated with foreign sales whereas foreign assets are positively related to bondholder value, implying that foreign operations are in part externally financed. Furthermore, high-leverage, medium-leverage and relatively low-leverage firms are positively associated with shareholder value, with medium-size debt enjoying greater capitalization. Overall, the results confirm that increased foreign expansion appears to increase shareholder value, consistent with the multinational network framework predicting a positive influence on value.

JEL Classification: M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Olibe, Kingsley O., Assessing the Effect of Corporate International Diversification on Shareholder-Bondholder Value (September 8, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1470295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1470295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
L Allen , C Pantzalis
Valuation of operational flexibility of multinational corporations
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 27 , p. 633 - 653 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Reevaluation of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from U.K
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Relative valuation roles of equity book value and net income as a function of financial health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998-02
Crossref
P G Berger , E Ofek
Diversification's effect on firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 65 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,113
RANK
413,954
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Tobin's Q, Corporate Diversification and Firm Performance

By Larry H.p. Lang and René M. Stulz

The Cost of Diversity: The Diversification Discount and Inefficient Investment

By Raghuram G. Rajan, Henri Servaes, ...

The Cost of Diversity: The Diversification Discount and Inefficient Investment

By Raghuram G. Rajan, Henri Servaes, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies