Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Holdings in Private Firms

22 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2010

Marco Bigelli

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Javier Sánchez Vidal

Universidad Politecnica de Cartagena - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance

Date Written: December 12, 2009

Abstract

Results from about 17,000 Italian private companies and 152,000 firm-year observations in the 1996-2005 period show that cash holdings in private firms support both the trade-off model and the financing hierarchy theory. In fact, more cash holdings are a feature of riskier companies and firms with higher growth opportunities. At the same time, more cash is held by firms with longer cash conversion cycles and lower financing deficits, as predicted by the pecking order theory. Reported evidence also shows that private firms that pay dividends hold more cash, that cash can be considered as negative debt, and net working capital represents a good cash-substitute. Macroeconomic and industry variables do not play a significant role, though firm’s specific risk draws its relevance from industry risk. Additional evidence shows that cash rich companies tend to invest more in a medium-term future horizon and small firms tend to hold more cash equivalents.

Keywords: Cash holdings, cash determinants, private firms, trade-off model, pecking order theory

JEL Classification: G31, G32

Suggested Citation:

Bigelli, Marco and Sánchez Vidal, Javier, Cash Holdings in Private Firms (December 12, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1470131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1470131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
V Acharya , H Almeida , M Campello
Is cash negative debt? A hedging perspective on corporate financial policies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 16 , p. 515 - 554 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Almeida , M Campello , M Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J S Ang
Small business uniqueness and the theory of financial management
Journal of Small Business Finance , volume 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1991
J S Ang
On the theory of finance for privately held firms
The Journal of Small Business Finance , volume 1 , p. 185 - 203 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
826
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,405
RANK
68,121
10 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Determinants and Implications of Corporate Cash Holdings

By Tim C. Opler, Lee Pinkowitz, ...

The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash

By Heitor Almeida, Murillo Campello, ...

Why Do U.S. Firms Hold so Much More Cash than They Used to?

By Thomas W. Bates, Kathleen M. Kahle, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies