Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fitness Versus Fatness: Productivity, Financial Conditions, and the Survival of New Canadian Manufacturing Firms

Posted: 10 Sep 2009

Kim P. Huynh

Government of Canada - Bank of Canada; Indiana University Bloomington - Department of Economics

Robert J. Petrunia

Lakehead University - Department of Economics

Marcel C. Voia

Carleton University

Date Written: September 9, 2009

Abstract

The recent economic and financial crisis highlights the role of balance sheets on firm survival. This paper considers the role of initial financial leverage (debt-to-asset ratio) on the survival of entrant Canadian manufacturing firms. Due to limited data availability, little is known about how financing affects the performance of young, private firms. This study utilizes a unique administrative dataset, T2LEAP, which contains employment and balance sheet information for all incorporated Canadian firms. We find that there is a non-monotonic relationship between leverage and firm exit (hazard) rate. The hazard rate decreases as leverage increases up to the four quintile of the leverage distribution and then increases for firms in the top leverage quintile. These effects are present while controlling for: firm characteristics, such as size and labour productivity; industry conditions, such as the real exchange rate, the differential US-Canada tariff rates, entry penetration, and the capital-labour ratio; and aggregate conditions in terms of the yield gap.

Keywords: firm survival, financial leverage, productivity, duration models

JEL Classification: C41, C14, D21, L60

Suggested Citation:

Huynh, Kim P. and Petrunia, Robert J. and Voia, Marcel C., Fitness Versus Fatness: Productivity, Financial Conditions, and the Survival of New Canadian Manufacturing Firms (September 9, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1470869
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,479
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies