Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Earnings and Cash Flows in Investment Decisions in the U.S. and in Mexico: Experimental Evidence

30 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2009

Jose Eduardo Miranda-Lopez

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

Linda M Nichols

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Date Written: September 10, 2009

Abstract

In this study, we investigate which of the two main accounting performance metric (earnings or cash flows) is used more in valuation decisions as workers enter the business world. Results reveal that the majority of participants in the U.S. rely on earnings while the majority of participants in Mexico rely mainly on cash flow information. The results also suggest that the users’ predisposition can be dysfunctional since they economically harmed themselves by not adjusting their reliance on valuation calculations to the other accounting metric even when it was easier to arrive to the correct answer by doing so. This study contributes to the existing international literature by documenting a country specific predisposition to use cash flows or earnings as a valuation tool as workers enter the business world. Furthermore, this study also shows that this predisposition can be dysfunctional, leading participants to make decisions that economically harmed themselves by using their predisposed metric.

Keywords: earnings, cash flows, investment decisions

JEL Classification: M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Miranda-Lopez, Jose Eduardo and Nichols, Linda M, The Use of Earnings and Cash Flows in Investment Decisions in the U.S. and in Mexico: Experimental Evidence (September 10, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1471116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1471116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , T F Keller
Earnings or cash flows: an experiment on functional fixation and the valuation of the firm
Studies in Accounting Research , volume 16 Posted: 1979
A Aczel
Complete Business Statistics Posted: 2002
R Adamson , D Taylor
Functional fixedness as related to elapsed time and to set
Journal of Experimental Psychology , p. 122 - 126 Posted: 1954-02
Crossref
C R Baker , E M Barbu
Trends in research on international accounting harmonization
The international journal of accounting , volume 42 , p. 272 - 304 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,605
RANK
454,090
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies