Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Microsimulation Approach to an Optimal Swedish Income Tax

IZA Discussion Paper No. 4379

59 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2009 Last revised: 8 May 2025

Peter Ericson

Goeteborg University - School of Business, Economics and Law; Ministry of Finance

Lennart Flood

Goeteborg University - School of Business, Economics and Law; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Abstract

This paper follows the theory of optimal taxation and the goal is to identify a tax/benefit design that maximizes social welfare. A two stage process is proposed where the individuals preferred choice of leisure and consumption is solved in the first stage, and the second stage identifies the tax/benefit system that maximize the social welfare function. Our study deviates from the mainstream literature as the first stage is based on a static micro simulation model with behavioral responses. The behavioral responses take two different forms and use two different types of models; first binary models that describe mobility in/out from non-work states such as old age pension, disability, unemployment, long term sickness, and second models that describe change in working hours and welfare participation. Compared to the current Swedish income tax, our results suggest that increased basic deduction and in-work tax credit in combination with a reduction of the progressive national taxes would increase welfare. We also find strong support for increased housing allowances. The reforms are financed by a tax based on the same tax base as the proportional municipal income tax.

Keywords: micro simulation, tax-benefit system, in-work tax credit reform, optimal taxation

JEL Classification: C8, D31, H24

Suggested Citation:

Ericson, Peter and Flood, Lennart, A Microsimulation Approach to an Optimal Swedish Income Tax. IZA Discussion Paper No. 4379, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1472571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R Aaberge
Characterizations of Lorenz Curves and Income Distributions
Social Choice and Welfare , volume 17 , p. 639 - 653 Posted: 2000
R Aaberge
Axiomatic Characterization of the Gini Coefficient and Lorenz Curve Orderings
Journal of Economic Theory , volume 101 , p. 115 - 132 Posted: 2001
R Aaberge , U Colombino
Designing Optimal Taxes with a Microeconometric Model of Household Labour Supply Posted: 2008
R Aaberge , L R Flood
Evaluation of an In-Work Tax Credit Reform in Sweden: Effects on Labor Supply and Welfare Participation of Single Mothers Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,454
RANK
580,215
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Using Elasticities to Derive Optimal Income Tax Rates

By Emmanuel Saez

Optimal Income Transfer Programs: Intensive Versus Extensive Labor Supply Responses

By Emmanuel Saez

Welfare Transfers in Two-Parent Families: Labor Supply and Welfare Participation Under Afdc-Up

By Hilary Williamson Hoynes

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies