Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The EMU Integration Structure and the Spillover Dynamics Towards the IAS Harmonization

Journal of Economic Integration, Vol. 26, No. 03, 2011

Posted: 13 Sep 2009 Last revised: 5 Dec 2014

George Karathanassis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration; Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Vasilios I. Sogiakas

University of Glasgow

Stella N. Spilioti

University of Piraeus - Department of Economics

Date Written: September 12, 2009

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between the European Monetary Union (EMU) financial markets both in the long or in the short run term, with respect to the harmonization procedure of the International Accounting Standards (IAS). According to many analysts, the IAS could possible contribute to the transparency of the transmitted information, the direct accessibility to the fundamentals of listed firms and the uniform manipulation of accounting data not only within exchanges but also between them. Based on the above, it is expected that the financial markets should react to the IAS harmonization with tighter relationships either in the expectations of their long run structure or in the transmission of new information which is expressed by the second moment dynamics. This paper examines empirically the IAS harmonization procedure in the EMU area and its impact on the relationship of the financial markets involved. By application of regime shift methodologies, the empirical findings of the paper offer evidence consistent with the hypothesis that the IAS harmonization process contributed to the informational efficiency and the transparency of long and short run expectations into financial markets, with higher degrees of interdependencies.

Keywords: Cointegration, Spillover Effects, Regime Shift

JEL Classification: C22, C52, C53, G15

Suggested Citation:

Karathanassis, George and Karathanassis, George and Sogiakas, Vasilios I. and Spilioti, Stella N., The EMU Integration Structure and the Spillover Dynamics Towards the IAS Harmonization (September 12, 2009). Journal of Economic Integration, Vol. 26, No. 03, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1472377
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,797
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies