Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Book Value and Earnings: Evidence from Two Different Financial Reporting Regimes

Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 1-16, 2009

16 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2009 Last revised: 13 Aug 2016

Mohd Halim Kadri

Universiti Teknologi MARA Johore Branch

M. K. Ibrahim

Taibah University

Rozainun Abdul Aziz

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Date Written: July 1, 2009

Abstract

This study aimed at investigating the value relevance of book value and earnings and the relationship between earnings and operating cash flow of two different financial reporting regimes in Malaysia. A market and non-market valuation approaches were utilised for that purpose. The result of market valuation approach of pool sample shows that book values and earnings are value relevant. We also observed that the change in financial reporting regime affects significantly the value relevance of book value and but not earnings. While book value and earnings are value relevant during the MASB period, only book value is value relevance during the FRS period. The result of non-market valuation approach on the other hand, shows that the change in financial reporting regime has no significant effect on the relationship between earnings and operating cash flow. The result of market valuation approach implicates that the introduction of new or improved standards under FRS regime strengthen the position of book value thus leaving earnings behind in equity valuation. The result of non-market valuation model implicates that the level of relationship between earnings and operating cash flow persists as long as operating cash flow comprise of cash and cash equivalent components whereas earnings comprise of cash and accruals components. The study contributes to the existing literature in the area of the effect of adoption of FRS on value relevance of accounting numbers in Malaysia.

Keywords: Market value, book value, earnings, operating cash flow, Malaysian, capital market research

JEL Classification: G21, M43

Suggested Citation:

Kadri, Mohd Halim and Ibrahim, Muhd Kamil and Abdul Aziz, Rozainun, Value Relevance of Book Value and Earnings: Evidence from Two Different Financial Reporting Regimes (July 1, 2009). Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 1-16, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1473562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
K Ahmed , J Goodwin
Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards on the Accounts and Accounting Quality of Australian Firms Posted: 2006
K H Bae , S W Jeong
The Value-relevance of Earnings and Book Value, Ownership Structure, and Business Group Affiliation: Evidence from Korean Business Groups
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , p. 740 - 766 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Value Relevance of Value Relevance Literature For Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting and Economic , volume 31 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S R Bartov , M Goldberg , Kim
Comparative value relevance among German, US and International Accounting Standards: A German stock market perspective
Journal of Accounting Auditing & Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Osamwonyi Ohonba
Effects of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) on Value Relevance of Accounting Information
57 Pages · Posted: 12 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 562
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,602
RANK
432,122
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies