Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Foreign Mutual Fund Ownership: The Role of Comparability

SCU Leavey School of Business Research Paper No. 09-06

48 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2009 Last revised: 17 May 2011

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Xuesong Hu

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Siqi Li

Santa Clara University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 9, 2010

Abstract

Proponents of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) argue that mandating a uniform set of accounting standards improves financial statement comparability that in turn attracts greater cross-border investment. Our study tests this assertion by examining the change in foreign mutual fund investment in firms that began using IFRS after its mandatory adoption in the European Union (EU) in 2005. We hypothesize that firms experience larger increases in foreign mutual fund ownership when there is a credible increase in uniformity from IFRS adoption. We define a credible increase in uniformity as a large increase in the number of industry peers using the same accounting standards in countries where IFRS is credibly implemented. Consistent with our hypothesis, we find that subsequent to mandatory IFRS adoption, the increase in foreign mutual fund investment is greater among the firms that experience relatively large increases in uniformity and are in countries with strong implementation credibility.

Keywords: Mandatory IFRS adoption, financial statement comparability, cross-border investment

JEL Classification: G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Hu, Xuesong and Hung, Mingyi and Li, Siqi, The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Foreign Mutual Fund Ownership: The Role of Comparability (December 9, 2010). SCU Leavey School of Business Research Paper No. 09-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1473889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1473889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,452
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,497
RANK
30,445
105 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies