Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS and its Enforcement on Earnings Management: An International Comparison

43 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2009

Lei Cai

Massey University - School of Accountancy

Asheq Razaur Rahman

School of Accountancy, Massey University

Stephen M. Courtenay

Massey University

Date Written: December 10, 2008

Abstract

Widespread adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is expected to improve accounting quality. IFRS is issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), but the IASB has no power to enforce the standards. Many are concerned that without adequate enforcement mechanisms, the benefits of IFRS adoption will be minimal. We examine the effect of IFRS and its enforcement on earnings management in financial reporting using over 100,000 firm-year observations from 2000 to 2006 across 32 countries. We conduct this examination by using a modified measure of enforcement developed by Hope (2003). We find that earnings management in IFRS adoption countries has been decreasing in recent years. The results also show that countries with stronger enforcement generally have less earnings management.

Keywords: IFRS, Enforcement, Earnings Management, Institutions

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Lei and Rahman, Asheq Razaur Razaur and Courtenay, Stephen M., The Effect of IFRS and its Enforcement on Earnings Management: An International Comparison (December 10, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1473571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1473571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading, and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Atje , B Jovanovic
Stock market and development
European Economic Review , volume 37 , p. 632 - 640 Posted: 1993
Crossref
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts Posted: 2008-09-12
Crossref
Load more
25 Citations
Hans-Joachim Böcking , Marius Gros , Daniel Worret
Enforcement of accounting standards: how effective is the German two-tier system in detecting earnings management?
Review of Managerial Science , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 431 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Alini da Silva , Caroline Sulzbach Pletsch , Roberto Carlos Klann , Luiza Betânia Fasolin , Jorge Eduardo Scarpin
Standardization of Financial Reporting and Accounting in Latin American Countries
, p. 195 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Ines Kateb
The bridge to quality financial reporting: Audit committees’ mediating role in IFRS implementation for emerging markets
Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 250 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Roberto Carlos Klann , Ilse Maria Beuren
Earnings management IFRS adoption in Brazilian and British companies
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 13 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,145
RANK
8,044
25 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies