Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proxy Rules and Proxy Practices: An Empirical Study of US and UK Shareholder Proposals

68 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2009 Last revised: 29 Sep 2009

Bonnie Buchanan

University of Surrey

Jeffry M. Netter

Department of Finance; University of Georgia Law School

Tina Yang

University of South Florida - Muma College of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 15, 2009

Abstract

In May 2009, the SEC proposed the most significant amendments to proxy rules since 1942. We build comprehensive samples of US and UK shareholder proposals for the period 2000-2006 to study the relation between proxy rules and proxy practices and the effect of shareholder proposals on firm performance. We find that, despite perceived negligible power, US shareholder proposals have more significant and positive impact on firms than UK ones, which have greater legal power to effect changes. US shareholder proposals have a significant impact on long-term stock performance, CEO turnover and board structure.

Keywords: Shareholder proposal, shareholder activism, proxy voting, proxy reform, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Buchanan, Bonnie and Netter, Jeffry M. and Yang, Tina, Proxy Rules and Proxy Practices: An Empirical Study of US and UK Shareholder Proposals (September 15, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1474062 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1474062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
456
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,846
RANK
31,672
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance and Shareholder Initiatives: Empirical Evidence

By Jonathan M. Karpoff, Paul H. Malatesta, ...

Shareholder Passivity Reexamined

By Bernard S. Black

The Impact of Shareholder Activism on Target Companies: A Survey of Empirical Findings

By Jonathan M. Karpoff

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies