Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Economic Analysis of Fair Value: Accounting as a Vector of Crisis

Cournot Centre for Economic Studies, Prisme, No. 15, 2009

44 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2009 Last revised: 2 Jun 2010

Vincent Bignon

Banque de France

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Xavier Ragot

National Center for Scientific Research (CNRS)

Date Written: August 2, 2009

Abstract

European legislation took its essential inspiration from the logic of historical cost: the valuation of balance-sheet assets was grounded in the depreciated historical cost of their acquisition. In July 2002, the European Parliament's adoption of new accounting standards for quoted companies, which took effect 1 January 2005, oriented European accounting towards the new principle of fair value. Its introduction has imposed the determination of the value of assets by the present value of the expected profits that these assets can generate. It has involved establishing the value of each asset according to its future contribution to the profit of the business.

Contemporary research, however, does not have as its ultimate goal the replacement of historical cost by fair value. Recent work analysing business production processes plead, on the contrary, for limitation of its usage. Three concepts summarize this work: asymmetry of information, complementarities, and specificities of assets employed. Firms create wealth by making assets complementary, because they add to these assets characteristics specific to the production process deployed. These supplementary characteristics have no market value, and thus the value of each asset for a firm is always greater than its resale value. Consequently, the specificity of an asset is defined by the difference between its value for the firm and its market value. In order to preserve the competitive advantage flowing from this combination of specific assets, it is necessary to keep this type of information secret: hence, there exists an asymmetry of information between the firm and its environment.

In this context, the criterion of fair value poses important problems of asset valuation: the specificity and complementarity of assets force accountants to use valuation models in order to determine asset values. Financial analysts have recourse to such models in order to value businesses. The use of these models for accounting purposes does not, however, ensure the reliability of accounts; in effect, small changes in the assumptions can lead to large variations in the results. The purpose of accounting is rather to constitute a source of independent information, in a form that is relevant to valuation by financial markets.

In addition to the valuation problem, the principle of fair value may introduce the problem of financial volatility into accounting. The existence of excessive financial market volatility, which is demonstrable theoretically and empirically, creates superfluous risk and tends to reduce the investment capacity of firms. Lastly, fair value reinforces financial criteria to the detriment of the other valuation criteria of management teams. All stakeholders in the business, including shareholders and institutional investors, risk being its victims.

The financial crisis that began in the summer of 2007 confirms the intrinsic flaws of the fair value accounting model. It did not help to prevent the crisis, but rather deepened it. Accounting must be an instrument of control and regulation, independent of the market and centred on the firm as an enterprise entity, without following daily market values. Accounting must thus establish itself as a central institution of market economies, essential to the functioning of the markets and in accordance with the public interest.

Keywords: accounting and economics, entity firm, international accounting harmonization, impairment of assets, intangibles, asset valuation recognition and measurement, dynamic accounting, financial stability, business cycles

JEL Classification: A12, D21, M40, l51, K22, G30, F02, E30

Suggested Citation:

Bignon, Vincent and Biondi, Yuri and Ragot, Xavier, An Economic Analysis of Fair Value: Accounting as a Vector of Crisis (August 2, 2009). Cournot Centre for Economic Studies, Prisme, No. 15, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1474228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Aaa Fasc ; Bloomfield , R J , T E Christensen , K Jamal , S R Moehrle , J A Ohlson , S H Penman , G J Previts , T L Stober , S Sunder , R L Watts , R H Colson
A Framework for Financial Reporting Standards: Issues and a Suggested Model
American Accounting Association (AAA) Financial Accounting Standards Committee (FASC)'s Report Posted: 2009-07-30
Crossref
M Aglietta , A Rebérioux
Corporate Governance Adrift: A Critique of Shareholder Value Posted: 2004
R Anthony
Tell it Like it Was: A Conceptual Framework for Financial Accounting Posted: 1983
R Anthony
We don't have the accounting concepts we need
Harvard Business Review Posted: 1987-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,949
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,973
RANK
19,394
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Mathematical Institutional Economics

By Martin Shubik

Accounting and the Formation of Share Market Prices Over Time: A Mathematical Institutional Economic Analysis Through Simulation and Experiment

By Yuri Biondi

Share Price Formation, Financial Instability and Accounting Design

By Yuri Biondi and Pierpaolo Giannoccolo

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies