Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Japan's Corporate Income Tax - Overview and Challenges

IMF Working Paper No. 08/70

22 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2009

Thomas Dalsgaard

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Date Written: March 2008

Abstract

The structure of Japan's corporate income tax system is broadly in line with those of other G7 countries. However, relatively high marginal and average effective tax rates prompt the question of whether adjustments should be considered to meet the objectives of promoting growth, investment and competitiveness in a revenue neutral manner. This paper discusses key issues and trade-off's related to changes in the corporate income tax system. It does not provide recommendations, but raises issues that could hopefully serve as useful inputs to the ongoing discussion and tax debate in Japan.

Keywords: Corporate taxes, Japan, Tax rates, Income taxes

Suggested Citation:

Dalsgaard, Thomas, Japan's Corporate Income Tax - Overview and Challenges (March 2008). IMF Working Paper No. 08/70, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1475513
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Present Discounted Value of Depreciation Allowances in G7 Countries
Statutory Corporate Income Tax Rates in G7 Countries Posted: 1990
9 5. Marginal Effective Tax Rates (METRs) in G7 Countries , p. 1979 - 2005 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Composite Taxation of Dividend Income (Corporate plus Individual Tax) Posted: 2006
METRs for Plant and Machinery in Manufacturing in G7 Countries Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,466
RANK
429,779
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Efficiency Consequences of Local Revenue Equalization: Tax Competition and Tax Distortions

By Sam Bucovetsky and Michael Smart

The Incentive Effect of Fiscal Equalization Transfers on Tax Policy

By Thiess Buettner

The Fiscal Incentive Effects of the Australian Equalisation System

By Bev Dahlby and Neil Warren

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies