Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Income Statement Items in an Emerging Capital Market: The Case of Iran

19 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2009

Abbas Aflatooni

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mohsen Dastgir

Shahid Chamran University

Date Written: September 22, 2009

Abstract

This paper investigates the relative and incremental value relevance of earnings and operating income in the emerging capital market of Iran. The issue is tested by regressing stock returns and stock market prices on the levels of earnings and operating income. Based on a sample of 1389 firm-years for firms listed in Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE), during 2003–2006 and using cross-sectional and pooled regressions, unlike prior findings in the studies on developed and mature markets, we find no strong evidence that operating income be more value relevant than earnings. Also, we find no strong evidence that Iranian investors are functionally fixated on earnings.

Keywords: earnings, operating income, value relevance, Tehran Stock Exchange

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aflatooni, Abbas and Dastgir, Mohsen, The Value Relevance of Income Statement Items in an Emerging Capital Market: The Case of Iran (September 22, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1476849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1476849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Differences in Commercial Database Reported Earnings: Implications for Empirical Research
Pages: 51 Posted: 1 Nov 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Amir , S Harris , K Venuti
A comparison of the value-relevance of U.S. versus Non-U.S. GAAP accounting measures using form 20-F reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 230 Posted: 1993
Crossref
M Arc , A Mora
Empirical Evidence of Effect of European Accounting Differences on the Stock Market Valuation of Earnings and Book Value
The European Accounting Review , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 573 - 599 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Bradshaw , R G Sloan
GAAP Versus the Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,779
RANK
239,334
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Gaap Versus the Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings

By Mark T Bradshaw, Matthew Moberg, ...

The Predictive Value of Expenses Excluded from 'Pro Forma' Earnings

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Russell J. Lundholm, ...

Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings

By Neil Bhattacharya, Ervin L. Black, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies