Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Response to the U.S. Securities and Exchange’s Proposed Rule: Roadmap for the Potential Use of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. Issuers

Journal of International Accounting Research, 2009

41 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2009

Carol Ann Frost

University of North Texas

Elaine Henry

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Steve Lin

University of Memphis

Date Written: September 21, 2009

Abstract

This paper is a response to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s request for comments on its proposed rule concerning a “Roadmap” for the use of financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by U.S. issuers. The paper addresses only a few of the 70 multipart questions contained in the Roadmap. We find that while there are widely divergent opinions, little empirical evidence directly bears on the question of whether U.S. issuers should be required or permitted to adopt IFRS. We conclude that further analysis of the costs and benefits of a mandated transition to IFRS should be done. Notwithstanding the need for further analysis, we question whether it is justified to withhold from U.S. issuers the option to use IFRS for financial reports based on industry membership or size, when all non-U.S. issuers have the option to do so. While IFRS might marginally increase the concentration among audit firms, research suggests that concentration of audit services may be driven primarily by the litigious environment in the U.S. This suggests that concentration would be relatively unaffected by a change in accounting standards.

Keywords: IFRS, SEC Roadmap

JEL Classification: M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Frost, Carol Ann and Henry, Elaine and Lin, Steve, Response to the U.S. Securities and Exchange’s Proposed Rule: Roadmap for the Potential Use of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. Issuers (September 21, 2009). Journal of International Accounting Research, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1476534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1476534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS: Pros and cons for investors
Special Issue , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
R Ball
What is the actual economic role of financial reporting? Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , p. 427 - 432 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,597
RANK
311,586
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies