Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash from Operations and Accruals in Three Vs. Five Categories Cash Flow Statement

21 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2009

Abbas Aflatooni

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 22, 2009

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to explore attribute differences between CFO and accruals in three and five categories cash flow statement. This paper compares the relative and incremental value relevance of IRA-GAAP (five categories) and U.S. GAAP (three categories) based operating cash flows and accruals. The issue is investigated by regressing listed Iranian firms’ stock returns on the levels of operating cash flows and accruals in IRA-GAAP and same items adjusted to U.S. GAAP. The results indicate that there are no significant differences between IRA-GAAP and U.S. GAAP based earnings components in explaining stock returns. Thus, operating cash flows, discretionary and non-discretionary accruals based on IRA-GAAP are not more value relevant than operating cash flows and discretionary and non-discretionary accruals that are adjusted to U.S. GAAP. Thus, based on the value relevance literature, in the case of CFO and accruals, U.S. GAAP and IRA-GAAP are not preferable to each other.

Keywords: U.S. GAAP, value relevance, operating cash flows, discretionary accruals, non-discretionary accruals

JEL Classification: G17, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aflatooni, Abbas, Cash from Operations and Accruals in Three Vs. Five Categories Cash Flow Statement (September 22, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1476854 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1476854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 Posted: 1993
Crossref
E Amir , T Harris , E Venuti
A comparison of the value-relevance of U.S. versus non-U.S. GAAP accounting measures using Form 20-F reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Mark H. Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976 Pages: 55 Posted: 11 Apr 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Barth , G Clinch
International accounting differences and their relation to share prices Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,063
RANK
249,957
3 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies