Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship Between the Audit Committee and the Internal Audit Function: Evidence from Australia

Posted: 27 Sep 2009 Last revised: 30 Sep 2009

Dominic Canestrari-Soh

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Nonna Martinov-Bennie

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: September 24, 2009

Abstract

In light of the recent regulatory reforms and the refocus on improving corporate governance, this study aims to extend our understanding of the nature of the relationship and interactions between the Audit Committee (AC) and the Internal Audit Function (IAF), two integral parts of the corporate governance mosaic. A qualitative approach, using semi-structured interviews, is employed to investigate the perceptions of six AC Chairs and six Chief Internal Audit Executives representing a number of industries from the top 150 ASX listed companies and one large public sector entity. The results of the study suggest that there is now a greater appreciation for the importance of mutual reliance and a strong relationship between the AC and the IAF consequent of the expansion and refocus each party has experienced in their respective roles. The quality of individuals in key roles within each function, as well as personal attributes and values of members are also perceived to be critical for the effectiveness of each mechanism, and in ensuring a strong functional relationship between both. Lastly, the findings present a level of diversity in the participation in and practice of performance evaluation of both the AC and the IAF.

Keywords: audit committee, internal audit, corporate governance, performance evaluation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Canestrari-Soh, Dominic and Martinov-Bennie, Nonna, The Relationship Between the Audit Committee and the Internal Audit Function: Evidence from Australia (September 24, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1477852
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,055
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies