Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Annual Reporting Practice: A Comparative Study of Selected Foreign and Domestic Companies in Bangladesh

16 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2009

Shohrab Hossain Khan

University of Chittagong - Department of Marketing

Sogir Khandoker

Jagannath University, Bangladesh

Dilruba Khanam

University of Chittagong - Department of Marketing

Date Written: December 28, 2005

Abstract

Style and forms of annual reports varies from country to country, company to company due to the rules and regulation, the need of "user groups" or to the willingness of the company’s management. In Bangladesh, public limited company has to prepare financial reports by following Accounting Standards adopted by ICAB. They also follow companies Act 1994, SEC rules 1987, IAS rules and other relevant regulations. Other than these non-financial information are included in the report. The study conducts a comparison of "Annual Reporting Practice" between the listed companies of CSE and some foreign companies. Because, most of the local companies of CSE do not follow the above regulations, so the present study has recommended some guidelines.

Keywords: Annual reporting, Regulations, company, comparison, standard

JEL Classification: A10

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Shohrab Hossain and Khandoker, Mohammad Sogir Hossain and Khanam, Dilruba, Annual Reporting Practice: A Comparative Study of Selected Foreign and Domestic Companies in Bangladesh (December 28, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1479911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1479911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Jahangir Alam & Mohammad Saleh Jahur; the annual reporting practices of Bangladesh petroleum corporation-an evaluation
Commerce volume10 Posted: 1994
Dr
Sujit Saha & Md Saidur Rahman; Financial reporting practices in banks and financial institutions: Implementing the new formats of financial statements in compliance with IAS-30; the Bangladesh Accountant Posted: 2000-09
Financial Accounting Standards Board, Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No.1 Objectives of Financial Reporting by Business Enterprises Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,157
RANK
386,928
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies