Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
OECD Tax Treaties: Who Beneficially Owns Dividends in a Total Return Swap?

Journal Taxation of Investments, Vol. 27, No. 1, 2009

Posted: 29 Sep 2009

Dashiell Shapiro

Shartsis Friese LLP

Date Written: September 28, 2009

Abstract

This article explores how local taxing authorities might apply the beneficial ownership concept in an OECD-based tax treaty to dividends paid on equity that is referenced in a cross-border total return equity swap. The article examines the OECD Commentary, relevant case law, recent guidelines proposed by the Obama Administration's Treasury Department regarding sourcing rules for equity swaps, and an Israeli Tax Authority circular regarding beneficial ownership. The article contends that it is possible to see in the OECD Commentary and case law support for an analytically sound approach to beneficial ownership that focuses on which party has control over the underlying equity, as opposed to a purely economic substance-over-form analysis that generally refuses to distinguish between a long position in a total return swap and real ownership of the underlying equity. The article then discusses several features of a total return swap that may be relevant to this analysis, including which party has rights to the underlying equity in the case of bankruptcy, whether the bank or short party is economically compelled to hedge by owning the underlying equity, and whether the bank or short party agreed to follow or does follow its counterparty's instructions when making voting decisions with respect to its hedge.

Keywords: Beneficial Ownership, Beneficial Owner, Total Return Swap, Total Return Equity Swap, Indofood, Prevost Car, CSX Corp, Liquidity, Crossing In, Crossing Out, Agent, Nominee, Control, Substance over Form, Tax Treaties

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Shapiro, Dashiell, OECD Tax Treaties: Who Beneficially Owns Dividends in a Total Return Swap? (September 28, 2009). Journal Taxation of Investments, Vol. 27, No. 1, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1479823
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,313
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies