Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relative Importance of Firm and Country Characteristics for Earnings Quality Around the World

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2009

Cristina Gaio

Universidade Tecnica de Lisboa - ISEG

Date Written: May 1, 2009

Abstract

We examine the relative importance of firm, industry, and country characteristics in explaining earnings quality around the world in a wide sample of firms in 38 countries over 1990-2003. An aggregate earnings quality measure based on seven earnings attributes (accrual quality, persistence, predictability, smoothness, value relevance, timeliness, and conservatism) indicates firm and industry characteristics today explain much more of the variation in earnings quality rankings than country characteristics. The main results hold for different levels of a country’s economic development and investor protection. We also find that firm and industry characteristics became more important in the late 1990s as accounting and financial globalization accelerated. Thus, firm and industry characteristics have incremental explanatory power beyond cross-country variation in determining earnings quality worldwide.

Keywords: earnings quality, investor protection, accounting and financial globalization, economic development

JEL Classification: G15, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gaio, Cristina, The Relative Importance of Firm and Country Characteristics for Earnings Quality Around the World (May 1, 2009). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1479256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Do U.S. firms have the best corporate governance? A cross-country examination of the relation between corporate governance and shareholder wealth
Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Ali , P Zarowin
The role of earnings levels in annual earnings-returns studies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 286 - 296 Posted: 1992
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond
Reporting incentives and the quality of non-U.S. firms'working capital accruals Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
666
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,992
RANK
90,251
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies