Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Externalities of Disclosure Regulation: The Case of Regulation FD

64 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2009 Last revised: 5 Aug 2011

Michael J. Crawley

University of Arkansas

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Yong Yu

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: August 1, 2011

Abstract

We use Regulation Fair Disclosure (REG FD) to examine a relatively neglected but important effect of disclosure regulation: externalities. REG FD applies to all publicly traded U.S. firms, but foreign firms cross-listed on U.S. stock exchanges are explicitly exempt. Despite the exemption, we find that many cross-listed firms voluntarily adopt REG FD as part of their disclosure policies. We hypothesize that REG FD imposes two externalities on cross-listed firms. First, following REG FD, previously disadvantaged U.S. investors have a lower demand for shares of cross-listed firms that continue to follow a selective disclosure policy. Second, REG FD creates an information spillover effect on cross-listed firms whose receipt of information is positively correlated with that of U.S. firms. We find evidence of both effects in cross-listed firms’ voluntary REG FD adoption decisions. Relative to non-adopters, cross-listed firms who voluntarily adopt REG FD exhibit a significant reduction in the information asymmetry component of cost of capital and are also more likely to switch to open disclosure post REG FD. These results suggest that cross-listed firms’ voluntary REG FD adoption represents a credible commitment to increased disclosure transparency.

Keywords: Regulation Fair Disclosure, disclosure externalities, cross-listed firms

JEL Classification: G, K2, M4, N2

Suggested Citation:

Crawley, Michael Joseph and Ke, Bin and Yu, Yong, Externalities of Disclosure Regulation: The Case of Regulation FD (August 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1481506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1481506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Anita Anand , Frank Milne , Lynnette D. Purda
Voluntary Adoption of Corporate Governance Mechanisms
Pages: 46 Posted: 10 Aug 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
W Bailey , G A Karolyi , C Salva
The Economic Consequences of Increased Disclosure: Evidence from International Cross-Listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,357
RANK
156,431
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Regulation Fd and the Financial Information Environment

By Frank Heflin, K.r. Subramanyam, ...

Regulation Fair Disclosure and Earnings Information: Market, Analyst, and Corporate Responses

By Warren Bailey, Haitao Li, ...

Informational Effects of Regulation Fd: Evidence from Rating Agencies

By Philippe Jorion, Alfred Z. Liu, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies