Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Market Reactions to the Japanese Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2006

Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 126-136, Winter 2009

Posted: 7 Oct 2009 Last revised: 26 Dec 2009

Kosuke Seino

University of Tokyo - Faculty of Engineering

Fumiko Takeda

Keio University

Date Written: September 27, 2009

Abstract

This article investigates stock market reactions to announcements related to the introduction of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law or the so-called Japanese Sarbanes-Oxley Act (J-SOX), which was enacted to reinforce corporate accountability and responsibility after several corporate and accounting scandals in Japan. We find that the announcements leading to the passage of the J-SOX raised stock prices of firms listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Another finding is that firms with high ratio of foreign shareholders or leverage experienced more positive stock price reactions, perhaps because these firms were more prepared for J-SOX compliance, with a better governance structure. By contrast, whether the firm was audited by Big 4 audit firms did not seem to matter for investors. In addition, large firms tended to have more negative stock price reactions than small firms, perhaps due to the high costs of the J-SOX compliance.

Suggested Citation:

Seino, Kosuke and Takeda, Fumiko, Stock Market Reactions to the Japanese Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2006 (September 27, 2009). Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 126-136, Winter 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1482588
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies