Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dumping Determination Discretions Analysis: Through Lenses of Relevant Accounting Principles

18 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2009

Cheaseth SENG

Pannasatra University of Cambodia; The Office of Council of Ministers, The Cabinet of H.E. Deputy Prime Minister SOK AN

Samreth Seng

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 5, 2009

Abstract

Antidumping (AD) law and policy is concerned with fair trading among World Trade Organisation. However, it has been known to be used as protection policy. Article II of Agreement on implementation of Article VI of GATT 1994 provides significant discretions to national investigating authorities in investigating AD actions. Positive outcome of AD cases is predictable. The current paper contributes to AD literature by investigating the discretions provided in accounting principles point of view. The findings indicate that there is a great range of accounting principles relevant to the computation of exported price, normal value and dumping-margin. Each of the accounting principles identified provides a different product cost.

Keywords: Dumping margin, WTO, Accounting

Suggested Citation:

SENG, Cheaseth and Seng, Samreth, Dumping Determination Discretions Analysis: Through Lenses of Relevant Accounting Principles (October 5, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1482992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1482992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,213
RANK
470,088
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Evolving Discretionary Practices of U.S Antidumping Activity

By Bruce A. Blonigen

The Rise of U.S. Antidumping Activity in Historical Perspective

By Douglas A. Irwin

The Hidden Costs of International Dispute Settlement: WTO Review of Domestic Anti-Dumping Decisions

By Daniel K. Tarullo

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies