Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Takeover Possibility and Market Response to Loss News Under Chinese ST Delisting Regulation

Asian-Pacific Journal of Accounting and Economics, 20(2), 101-117, 2013

30 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2009 Last revised: 22 Mar 2021

Sakthi Mahenthrian

Butler University

Xiaonong Zhang

Nankai University

Henry He Huang

Yeshiva University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 30, 2009

Abstract

This study examines whether the market reaction to firms’ second consecutive loss news is influenced by the firms’ likelihood of being taken over. Firms with two consecutive losses in China are subject to the “special-treatment (ST)” delisting regulation. We have two important findings. First, ST firms with certain characteristics (i.e. smaller firms with lower beta, lower accounting performance, higher leverage, and larger ownership concentration) are more likely to be taken over. Second, the market returns for the second consecutive loss news are higher for firms with a higher likelihood of being taken over.

Keywords: delisting regulations, distressed firms, corporate governance, earnings management

JEL Classification: G33, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Mahenthrian, Sakthi and Zhang, Xiaonong and Huang, Henry, Takeover Possibility and Market Response to Loss News Under Chinese ST Delisting Regulation (September 30, 2009). Asian-Pacific Journal of Accounting and Economics, 20(2), 101-117, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1483362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,673
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies