Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Brands: Contemporary Issues and Alternative Options

13 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2009

Agba D. O. Otonkue

Cross River University of Technology

Echeng Ezak

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Bernard Enya Edu

Cross River University of Technology

Date Written: October 5, 2009

Abstract

Contemporary issues and alternative options on accounting for brands are the main thrusts of this paper. Thus, issues associated with accounting for brands and their effects on the financial statements or alternative financial treatments and valuations of brands on the balance sheets of corporate organizations are examined and evaluated. Accordingly, the definition and recognition of brands as assets in the balance sheet are considered. The paper also dwells on areas related to brand accounting: the need for accountants in the valuation and management of brands, reliability of cost measurement of brands, accounting treatment for brands, revaluation of intangible assets and disclosure requirements. Other areas that are equally discussed are the issues of brands regulation in Nigeria and the way forward. The paper concludes that the financial world arrives at a brand valuation by estimating the operating profit attributable to the brand and comparing it to an unbranded product. Also, brand valuation appears to be the most promising technique capable of illustrating the importance of brands to managers while bridging the different orientations between accountants and marketing managers. The paper recommends that the choice treatments of goodwill should be replaced by one standard treatment of purchased goodwill, amortization, while internally generated goodwill should not be recorded on the balance sheet; and the interaction between management accountants and selling and distribution managers’ needs should further be strengthened and improved upon to allow for sound managerial decisions.

Keywords: brands, valuatiion of brands, brand accounting, intangible assets

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Otonkue, Agba D. O. and Ezak, Echeng and Edu, Bernard Enya, Accounting for Brands: Contemporary Issues and Alternative Options (October 5, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1483100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1483100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,600
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,414
RANK
26,353
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies