Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption and Analysts' Earnings Forecasts: Australian Evidence

34 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2009 Last revised: 19 Nov 2010

Julie Cotter

University of Southern Queensland

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Marvin Wee

Australian National University (ANU); Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: April 16, 2010

Abstract

We study 145 large listed Australian firms to explore the impact of IFRS adoption on the properties of analysts’ forecasts and the role of firm disclosure about IFRS impact. We find that analyst forecast accuracy improves and there is no significant change in dispersion in the adoption year, suggesting that analysts coped effectively with transition to IFRS. However, we do not observe the expected relationship between firms’ IFRS impact disclosures in their financial statements issued at the end of the transition year with forecast error and dispersion in the adoption year. The results question the timeliness and usefulness of financial statement disclosure, even in a setting where disclosure was mandated by accounting standards (AASB 1047 and AASB 1) and firms had strong incentives to provide information to analysts.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); analysts’ forecasts error and dispersion; AASB 1047 and AASB 101 IFRS transition disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Cotter, Julie and Tarca, Ann and Wee, Marvin and Wee, Marvin, IFRS Adoption and Analysts' Earnings Forecasts: Australian Evidence (April 16, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1487371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1487371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Disclosing the impact of adopting AASB equivalents to IASB standards
Accountnet Posted: 2002
D Acker , J Horton , I Tonks
Accounting standards and analysts" forecasts: The impact of FRS3 on analysts" ability to forecast EPS
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C Anilowski , M Feng , D Skinner
Does earnings guidance affect market returns? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 36 - 63 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
492
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,570
RANK
132,271
2 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies