Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management by Japanese Bank Managers Using Discretionary Loan Loss Provisions

Review of Pacific Basin Financial Markets and Policies, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 1-26, 2009

Posted: 18 Oct 2009

Wikil Kwak

University of Nebraska at Omaha - Department of Accounting

Ho-Young Lee

Yonsei University

Susan W. Eldridge

University of NE at Omaha

Date Written: March 2009

Abstract

This paper investigates Japanese bank managers' use of the discretionary component of loan loss provisions to manage earnings during the recession of the late 1990s. Although studies of US banks document that bank managers use loan loss provisions to smooth earnings, manage regulatory capital, and signal undervaluation, factors that may affect discretionary loan loss provisions in Japanese banks have not been empirically examined. We find that discretionary loan loss provisions for our sample of Japanese banks are positively related to the demand for external financing, realized securities gains, and prior year taxes and are negatively related to capital and pre-managed earnings.

Keywords: Earnings management, Japanese bank managers, discretionary loan loss provisions

JEL Classification: M43, M47, G21

Suggested Citation:

Kwak, Wikil and Lee, Ho-Young and Eldridge, Susan W., Earnings Management by Japanese Bank Managers Using Discretionary Loan Loss Provisions (March 2009). Review of Pacific Basin Financial Markets and Policies, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 1-26, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1487432
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,382
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies