Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Auditors in Corporate Governance

8 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2009

Navajyoti Samanta

University of Leicester

Tirthankar Das

West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences

Date Written: October 11, 2009

Abstract

Corporate governance loosely refers to the whole system of rights, processes and controls established internally and externally over the management of a business entity with the objective of protecting the interests of its stakeholders. At the most elementary level, it can be described as the processes by which investors and stakeholders attempt to minimize the transaction costs and agency costs associated with doing business within a company. To do so the principal prerequisite is to have a clear, transparent, concise and true picture of the company’s financial affairs. This has been achieved by the process of auditing, however willful or inadvertent negligence in auditing process has led to disastrous consequences. Much before Satyam scam shook the Indian corporate sector, the world had its share of breakdown of corporate governance in form of Enron, Parmalat, Qwest, Global Crossing etc. all from auditing lacunae which shook the very fundamentals of corporate governance. Hence auditing has an important place in the hierarchy of ideal corporate governance structure. This paper will focus on role of auditors in corporate governance with the central theme of ‘Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?’ or ‘who will guard the guards’, thereby delving into issues relating to duties of auditors, independence of auditors, liability of auditors, analyzing and comparing corporate scandals which took advantage of poor accounting standards and disclosure requirements. Specifically, the researchers will study the mode of appointment, remuneration, scope of activities and term of external auditors, as well as their liabilities in case of failure in discharge of duties, since these aspects of an auditor’s status are most closely related to their independence and function they play in a corporate governance framework of fair disclosure of financial accounts. Quite in consonance with the Irani Committee Report and the advisory by National Advisory Committee on Accounting Standards (NACAS) the researchers would argue that to make auditing even more transparent and independent interested parties not directly connected with the day to day management of the company like the representatives of shareholders, creditors etc. should be part of the auditing team, remuneration and appointment of auditors in any company should be scrutinized in an extraordinary general meeting and not just in Annual General Meeting, outsourcing of audit related work by reputed auditing firm should be firmly disallowed, a mandatory gap between re-appointment of auditors should be enforced. In lines of Naresh Chandra Committee Report and the recommendation of ICAI the researcher would further suggest that auditors be prohibited from performing certain non-audit services, blacklisting of auditors who are found guilty of dereliction of duty. Further the law courts are to be urged to consider that auditors owe a fiduciary duty towards the company and thus will be liable for breach of such fiduciary duty for fraudulent misrepresentation and not just institutional repercussion in form of blacklisting etc. by ICAI, there has to be a healthy debate to ensure that no veil of standard of care and skill obscure the duties of auditors, the researchers would like to draw a parallel between professionals in medical and auditing sector and show that courts have diverged on the standard of skill required, this is a disturbing trend as the statutory duty of care is same in both the cases. The researchers would conclude by a critique of the proposed superstructure in auditing field, the notion has been an unsuccessful attempt in USA, a micro supervision would be much effective and fruitful with representatives from interested groups like shareholders etc. but from a different company in different field working in tandem in a loose advisory role with the auditors group is bound to check any mis-alliance between management and auditors.

Keywords: corporate governance, duties of auditors, independence of auditors, liability of auditors, accounting standards and disclosure requirements, Naresh Chandra Committee Report, Irani Committee Report, ICAI, NACAS

JEL Classification: K00, G34

Suggested Citation:

Samanta, Navajyoti and Das, Tirthankar, Role of Auditors in Corporate Governance (October 11, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1487050 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1487050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,776
RANK
5,390
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies