Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Approaches Regarding Business Combinations

10 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2009

Cristina Aurora Bunea-Bontas

Constantin Brancoveanu University

Mihaela Cosmina Petre

Universitatea Constantin Brâncoveanu

Date Written: May 9, 2009

Abstract

The accounting for business combinations is a very important area, therefore it needs a high quality accounting standard that could be used for both domestic and cross-border financial reporting. IASB issued in January 2008 the revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations, which aims to help both users and preparers of the consolidated financial statements by improving the relevance, reliability and comparability of the information reported by companies around the world. This article aims to highlight few significant changes in the accounting treatment of business combinations that have arisen from the revised IFRS 3, focusing on the accounting principles surrounding the recognition and measurement of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and on the implications for calculating and measuring goodwill.

Keywords: control, acquisition method, fair value, non-controlling interest, goodwill

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bunea-Bontas, Cristina Aurora and Petre, Mihaela Cosmina, New Approaches Regarding Business Combinations (May 9, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1488657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1488657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Bdo International
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (revised) and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (as amended 2008) Posted: 2008
Crossref
Tohmatsu Delloite Touche
Business combinations and changes in ownership interests. A guide to the revised IFRS 3 and IAS 27 Posted: 2007
Tohmatsu Delloite Touche
IASB revises IFRS 3 and IAS 27 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Ernst &amp; Young ; Www , T Forbes , G Holt
Student Accountant, 2009, www.accaglobal.com/students/publications IASB
Business Combinations and Consolidated Financial Statements. How the changes will impact your business Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,647
RANK
195,180
1 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies