Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Politicization and Institutional (Non-) Change in International Taxation

WZB Discussion Paper, SP IV 2008-306

34 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2009

Thomas Rixen

University of Bamberg - Department of Political Science

Date Written: September 12, 2009

Abstract

This paper explores the institutional changes of international tax governance in response to growing politicization and contestation of international direct tax issues. I show that politicization – which is a very recent phenomenon in international taxation – results from a governance gap. The traditional setup of international tax cooperation has an unintended consequence in the form of harmful tax competition. In reaction to this problem, civil society groups have begun to question the effectiveness and fairness of the minimal international tax order, lobbying national governments and international organizations for more effective international regulation of tax issues. Thus, in contrast to existing hypotheses, societal politicization does not result from the increasing scope and authority of international institutions, but rather from the lack thereof. However, civil society demands have so far not led to institutional changes in international taxation. Instead, we can only observe indirect and incremental change, which falls short of what would ultimately be needed to address harmful tax competition effectively.

Keywords: global governance, international taxation, politicization, civil society

Suggested Citation:

Rixen, Thomas, Politicization and Institutional (Non-) Change in International Taxation (September 12, 2009). WZB Discussion Paper, SP IV 2008-306, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1488058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1488058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Brian J Arnold , Michael J Mcintyre
International Tax Primer. Den Haag Posted: 1995
Brian J Arnold
Controlled Foreign Corporation Rules, Harmful Tax Competition, and International Taxation
2000 World Tax Conference Report--Report of the Proceedings of the First World Tax Conference: Taxes Without Borders , volume 17 Posted: 2000-02-26
Avery Jones , John
Are Tax Treaties Necessary?
Tax Law Review , volume 53 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 1999
Reuven S Avi-Yonah
The Structure of International Taxation: A Proposal for Simplification
Texas Law Review , volume 74 , issue 6 , p. 1301 - 1359 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,575
RANK
405,369
4 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Bilateral Tax Treaties on U.S. FDI Activity

By Bruce A. Blonigen and Ronald B. Davies

The Effects of Bilateral Tax Treaties on U.S. FDI Activity

By Bruce A. Blonigen and Ronald B. Davies

Competing for Capital: The Diffusion of Bilateral Investment Treaties, 1960-2000

By Zachary Elkins, Andrew T. Guzman, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies