Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Characteristics Motivating Firms’ IFRS Adoption: Evidence from the European Union

58 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2009 Last revised: 7 Mar 2011

Victoria Krivogorsky

San Diego State University

Jui-Chin Chang

Texas A&M International University

Ervin L. Black

Steed School of Accounting

Date Written: March 3, 2010

Abstract

We examine firm characteristics of early adoption of international financial reporting standards (IFRS) including company’s value, business complexity, corporate governance characteristics, and national levels of bureaucratic formalities in business. Because early adopters benefit from a positive network effect, they represent a driving force in harmonization and convergence. Therefore, we identify how a company’s characteristics impact its decision for early IFRS adoption. We test three groups of firms: those that adopted IFRS before the mandatory date; those that adopted IFRS on that date; and those that postponed IFRS adoption. We provide evidence, that firms’ business complexity, value, and choice of an auditor have a significant impact on early IFRS adoption. We also document that the extenuating effects of jurisdictions and national levels of bureaucratic formalities in business are factors that affect the decision to adopt IFRS.

Keywords: Accounting harmonization, firms’ value, business complexity, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M44, M41

Suggested Citation:

Krivogorsky, Victoria and Chang, Jui-Chin and Black, Ervin L., Analysis of Characteristics Motivating Firms’ IFRS Adoption: Evidence from the European Union (March 3, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1488336 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1488336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
T Agmon , D R Lessard
Investor Recognition of Corporate International Diversification
Journal of Finance , volume 32 , p. 1049 - 1055 Posted: 1977
Crossref
H A Akkermans , H Van Der , Horst
Managing IT infrastructure standardization in the networked manufacturing firm
International Journal of Production Economics , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 213 - 228 Posted: 2002
Crossref
G Akerlof
The Market for Lemons
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J
Market Teaction To the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
507
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,465
RANK
127,554
1 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies