Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceived Usefulness of Corporate Disclosure Through the Web: An Empirical Study

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. 8, Nos. 3/4, pp. 61-77, July/October 2009

Posted: 16 Oct 2009

Subhash Chander

Guru Nanak Dev University

Manjinder Singh Saini

Independent

Date Written: October 16, 2009

Abstract

The World Wide Web (www) has been adopted as a new medium for disseminating corporate information. It is a medium that offers numerous benefits for distributing business information to stakeholders over traditional means like the printed annual reports. The present paper analyzes the perceived usefulness of corporate disclosure through the Web by surveying retail investors taken from the selected cities of Punjab and Chandigarh (union territory). The data is collected from the selected respondents by personally administering the pretested questionnaire. Factor analysis has been applied to identify the structure of the Web-based factors, which have the potential to enhance the usefulness of corporate information. Improvement in quality of information, better decision making, increased usefulness of information, better evaluation, and enhanced competition have been identified as the factors explaining the perceived usefulness of corporate disclosure through the Web.

Suggested Citation:

Chander, Subhash and Saini, Manjinder Singh, Perceived Usefulness of Corporate Disclosure Through the Web: An Empirical Study (October 16, 2009). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. 8, Nos. 3/4, pp. 61-77, July/October 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1489732
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,321
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies