Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Link between Corporate Social Performance and Financial Performance: Evidence from Indonesian Companies

Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 149-159, June 2007

12 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2009

Hasan Fauzi

Sebelas Maret University

Lois S. Mahoney

Eastern Michigan University

Azhar Abdul Rahman

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: October, 15 2009

Abstract

This study examines the relationship of corporate social performance (CSP) to corporate financial performance (CFP) to determine if CSP is related to firm performance. Additionally, it examines whether firm size or industry affects the relationships between CSR and CSP. This study advances the literature as it examines this relationship for companies in a developing country, Indonesia, along with examining the impact of moderating variables on this relationship. Two models were developed: the first model was derived using slack resource theory and the second model was developed using the good management theory. Through the examination of 383 firms, the result of the study failed to find a significant relationship between CSP and CFP in either model. Further analysis, using the slack resource theory, did find that company size had a significant positive moderating effect on the relationship between CSP and CFP.

Keywords: Corporate Social performance, financial performance, content analysis, stakeholder

JEL Classification: M14, M19, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Fauzi, Hasan and Mahoney, Lois S. and Abdul Rahman, Azhar, The Link between Corporate Social Performance and Financial Performance: Evidence from Indonesian Companies (October, 15 2009). Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 149-159, June 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1489181
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
L K Dean
The Chicken and The Egg Revisited: Ties Between Corporate Social Performance and the Financial Bottom Line
Journal of Applied Psychology Posted: 1997
Crossref
T Donaldson , L E Preston
The Stakeholder Theory of the Corporation: Concept, Evidence, and Implication
The Academy of Management , volume 20 , issue 1 Posted: 1995
Crossref
J Frooman
Socially Irresponsible and Illegal Behavior and Shareholder Wealth
Business & Society , volume 3 , p. 221 - 249 Posted: 1997
Crossref
H Fauzi
Identifying and Analyzing the Level of Practices of Company's Social Responsibility in Improving Financial Performance
Journal of Business and Management , volume 4 , issue 2 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,614
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,529
RANK
25,980
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Social Performance of Indonesian State-Owned and Private Companies

By Hasan Fauzi, Mostaq M. Hussain, ...

The Relationship of CSR and Financial Performance: New Evidence from Indonesian Companies

By Hasan Fauzi and Kamil Idris

The Effect of Contextual Variables in the Relationship Between CSR and CFP: Evidence from Indonesian Companies

By Hasan Fauzi and Kamil Idris

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies