Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Financial Reporting: The Case of Turkey

2nd EUROMED Conference of the EUROMED Academy of Business

15 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2009

Aslihan Bozcuk

Bond University, Australia; Akdeniz University, Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences

Burak Sabri Arzova

Marmara University

Sinan Aslan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 18, 2009

Abstract

The purpose of our paper is to investigate the current state of internet financial reporting in light of the recent regulatory changes in the financial reporting environment of Turkish firms. Although these regulations only cover publicly listed firms, there has also been some usage of the internet as a means of disseminating financial information by large unlisted firms. However, we do not know the scale and scope of such voluntary financial disclosures or how they have changed over time.

Design/methodology/approach – We survey the top 500 Turkish industrial firms on the ‘Istanbul Chamber of Industry 500 list’ (ICI500) to ascertain whether the recent regulatory changes have led to significant changes with respect to their financial reporting on the internet.

Findings – Although we report a statistically significant increase in the number of firms providing financial disclosures on the internet from 2003 to 2007, we highlight a number of problem areas such as the extremely low level of voluntary disclosures (merely 7 per cent of the firms) and the apparent reluctance of listed firms to provide financial information unless it is mandatory to do so (such as financial summaries, financial ratios, share price performance and management reports).

Originality/value – Our study provides detailed information on the state of internet financial reporting in Turkey before and after major regulatory changes and focuses not just on quoted firms but also on large unlisted industrials.

Keywords: Internet Financial Reporting (IFR), Turkey, Mandatory disclosures, Voluntary disclosures

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bozcuk, Aslihan and Arzova, Burak Sabri and Aslan, Sinan, Internet Financial Reporting: The Case of Turkey (October 18, 2009). 2nd EUROMED Conference of the EUROMED Academy of Business, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1490523 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1490523
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
S B Arzova , Aslan S
A study towards the publication of the financial reports of the Istanbul Chamber of Industry (ICI) listed 500 companies on the internet
Oil Gas and Energy Quarterly , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 923 - 955 Posted: 2005
H Ashbaugh , K Johnstone , T Warfield
Corporate Reporting on the Internet , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 241 - 257 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Aslan
Electronic Distribution of Business Reporting for Public Information in Turkey
Iktisat Isletme ve Finans , volume 19 , p. 51 - 62 Posted: 2004
F Avallone , M Veneziani
Models of financial disclosure on the internet: a survey of Italian companies Posted: 2003
Load more
2 Citations
Khaldoon Al‐Htaybat
Corporate online reporting in 2010: a case study in Jordan
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 5 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Juma Bananuka , Sadress Night , Muhammed Ngoma , Grace Muganga Najjemba
Internet Financial Reporting Adoption: Exploring the Influence of Board Role Performance and Isomorphic Forces
Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 24, No. 48, 2019 · 22 Pages · Posted: 9 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 57
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
504
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,065
RANK
128,474
2 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies