Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance: Platitudes, Principles or Best Practices

25 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2009

Joan Conrod

Dalhousie University

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: March 1, 2009

Abstract

Since 2005 corporate governance disclosure requirements for Canadian public companies have been set by the Canadian Securities Administrators. The requirements are essentially a system of voluntary compliance with “best practices” but with mandatory disclosure of compliance or explanation of how it complied “in principle.” A company would be compliant if “best practices” were not followed, as long as compensating disclosure was made about the alternative approach taken. In December of 2008 the CSA proposed revisions to their requirements. The proposed new requirements support a so-called “principles approach” to governance, a substantial change from the “best practices” which are used as benchmarks in the 2005 requirements. Our study featured 307 TSX registrants and 148 TSX Venture registrants. We found the non-compliance rate for TSX firms ranged from 11% to 20%, using the lenient test of whether the company ignored the requirement to disclose and explain the company’s approach alternative approach to governance if they did not comply with best practices suggested in the nine areas we reviewed. We did not judge the appropriateness of the alternative approaches taken by firms that complied by making disclosure of differences with best practices, just as would be done under the new proposed “principles” based policy. For TSX Venture companies, non-compliance, in individual non-required areas, ranged from 25% to 84%, are of which are significantly higher than the current TSX rates of non-compliance. Overall, the non-compliance rate should give the investment community, and therefore the CSA, cause to hesitate.

Keywords: corporate governance, disclosures, board of directors, Canada

JEL Classification: A40, L50, K22

Suggested Citation:

Conrod, Joan and Salterio, Steven E., Corporate Governance: Platitudes, Principles or Best Practices (March 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1490131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1490131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,328
RANK
349,147
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies