Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committees on Canada’s 'Big Board' Fall into Line; Little Guys Continue to Lag

15 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2009

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: July 8, 2008

Abstract

After a rough introduction to the post-Sarbanes Oxley era, Canadian audit committees for TSX listed firms have mostly fallen into line with the reforms enacted by the Canadian Securities Administrators in 2004. A new study just completed shows that for a sample of over 450 Canadian companies that 90% or more complied with the regulatory requirements for Audit Committee member independence and financial literacy, assigned responsibilities acknowledged and audit firm fee disclosures.

The ‘made in Canada’ approach of providing ‘daylight’ by requiring disclosure of poor governance practices hoping that it would lead to substantive changes quickly does not seem to be born out given the predominance of Venture firms having management members on Audit Committees despite several years of disclosure of this departure from ‘best practice’. The lack of compliance in the area of mandated audit committee financial literacy disclosures among TSX companies is also problematic. ‘Negotiations’ among Canada’s thirteen regulators lead to the requirement for a financial expert on the audit committee to be dropped and replaced with this disclosure - yet even that disclosure is not being uniformly followed. Compounding this is the practice of nearly 90% of Venture companies voluntarily disclosing they have financially literate audit committees but with almost a third not providing any information about how they support that assertion.

Nonetheless, the study concludes that the overall story is a good news one for Canadian regulators. In one of the rare cases where regulators went public with a strong statement of disapproval of the level of noncompliance in their first study and kept their promise to carry out the follow up study in the next fiscal year, corporate Canada as represented by those listed on the “Big Board” seemed to be convinced that the regulators were serious about enforcement of this regulation.

Keywords: audit committee, compliance, Sarbanes Oxley Act, 404, 302, Canada

JEL Classification: M40, L50,K22

Suggested Citation:

Salterio, Steven E., Audit Committees on Canada’s 'Big Board' Fall into Line; Little Guys Continue to Lag (July 8, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1490127 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1490127
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,579
RANK
514,796
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies