Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Audit Quality on Accounting Policy Disclosures: Implications on Revenue Recognition Policy

17 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2009 Last revised: 23 Oct 2009

Serdar Ozkan

American University of the Middle East

Cagnur Kaytmaz Balsari

Dokuz Eylul University

Date Written: October 16, 2009

Abstract

Accounting policy disclosures are important parts of financial reports as addressed by standard-setter. They provide value relevant information to decisionmakers on choices taken by executives. The importance of reported revenue and its use in earnings management makes revenue recognition policy disclosure especially critical for user of financial statements. However, guidance provided by both IASB and FASB is limited and confusing on revenue recognition policy disclosure. The motivation for this study is to provide insight on revenue recognition policy disclosures in IFRS reporting environment. Concurrently, study investigates the current state of revenue recognition policy disclosures after IFRS adoption in Turkey. Additionally, we investigate the impact of audit quality on revenue recognition policy disclosures. Analysis conducted in two stages to show more general results in all sample firms and provide detailed analysis in a small sample of big firms because of their economic transactions richness. Results show that audit quality measured by big 4 and non-big 4 auditors, firm size, length of disclosure and time is not related to accounting policy disclosure. Thus, it can be concluded that the preparation of revenue recognition policy disclosure is related to companies rather then auditors. This also shows the need for guidance and oversight for accounting policy disclosures provided to firms and calls auditors to direct their attention on audit of accounting policy disclosures.

Keywords: Accounting Policy, Revenue Recognition, Audit Quality, Turkey, Big 4

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ozkan, Serdar and Kaytmaz Balsari, Cagnur, Impact of Audit Quality on Accounting Policy Disclosures: Implications on Revenue Recognition Policy (October 16, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1490105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1490105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Jennifer Lynne M. Altamuro , Anne L. Beatty , Joseph Peter Weber
Motives for Early Revenue Recognition: Evidence from Sec Staff Accounting Bulletin (Sab) 101
Pages: 36 Posted: 12 Jan 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Accounting Principles Board Posted: 1972
Apb Opinion No
Disclosure of accounting policies , volume 22
R Briner
Subtle issues in revenue recognition
CPA Journal Posted: 2001-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,077
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,511
RANK
47,135
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies