Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crisis Related Management Accounting Literature: A Content Analysis for Turkey

World of Accounting Science (MÖDAV), Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 181-188

6 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2009 Last revised: 5 May 2011

Burcu Demirel Utku

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Aslihan Bozcuk

Bond University, Australia; Akdeniz University, Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences

Date Written: October 18, 2009

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of our paper is to review the crisis related management accounting literature in Turkey in order to perform a content analysis. Turkey is no stranger to financial crises; it is not unusual for Turkish firms to be faced with a local or global financial crisis almost every few years. Yet, the firms that manage to survive are those who can sustain their competitiveness amid the financial crisis. Consequently, we see a reflection of this trend in the management accounting research area in Turkey.

Design/methodology/approach – We review three Turkish journals with an accounting focus and a broad readership base made up of academics, practitioners, and regulators. We look for papers on crisis related management accounting topics published during the last decade. We then conduct a detailed content analysis including research areas, keyword/topics, research methods and author affiliations.

Findings – A preliminary analysis reveals that 153 out of a total of 1100 papers focus on crisis related management accounting topics. We find that, papers which have at least one of the keywords ‘competition’, ‘cost’, ‘crisis’ and ‘performance’ comprise 67 per cent of all the relevant papers in our sample.

Originality/value – Our study provides detailed information on the scale and scope of crisis related management accounting literature in Turkey through a content analysis and contributes to the current debate on the global financial crisis by suggesting which issues matter the most when it comes to sustaining competitiveness.

Keywords: financial crisis, management accounting, content analysis, Turkey

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Demirel Utku, Burcu and Bozcuk, Aslihan, Crisis Related Management Accounting Literature: A Content Analysis for Turkey (October 18, 2009). World of Accounting Science (MÖDAV), Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 181-188, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1490542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
G B Gorton
Information, liquidity, and the (ongoing) panic of
National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) Working Paper Series Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Işık
Post Keynesyen Finansal Krılganlık Yaklaşımının Türkiye'de Finansal Krizlere (1990-2001) Uygulanması" İktisat/işletme ve Finans , p. 51 - 77 Posted: 2004
S Işık , K Duman , A Korkmaz
Türkiye ekonomisinde finansal krizler: bir factor analizi uygulaması
Dokuz Eylül University İİBF Dergisi , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 69 Posted: 2004
E Özçelik , E Taymaz
R&D support programs in developing countries: the Turkish experience , volume 37 , p. 258 - 275 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,473
RANK
269,867
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Is the 2007 U.S. Sub-Prime Financial Crisis so Different? an International Historical Comparison

By Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff

The Aftermath of Financial Crises

By Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff

The Aftermath of Financial Crises

By Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies