Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Pension Fair Values and Uncertainty

53 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2009 Last revised: 25 Oct 2012

Jan D. Fasshauer

Justus-Liebig-University of Giessen

Martin Glaum

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Date Written: Oct 25, 2012

Abstract

This study examines the value relevance of fair-value-based pension information using data from German companies that have adopted IFRS or US-GAAP. German companies do not tradition-ally fund pension plans externally. They therefore report large net pension obligations on their balance sheets. This provides an interesting setting to study the effects of uncertainty on the value relevance of pension-obligation fair values. We find that information related to financial positions is more closely associated with stock prices than pension-cost information. Second, fair-value estimates of companies’ pension obligations are more value relevant than the recognized net pen-sion liabilities that are smoothed because of the application of the corridor method. Third, actuar-ial gains and losses that under the current smoothing-oriented pension accounting standards re-main unrecognized in balance sheets have value relevance beyond that of recognized net pension liabilities. Fourth, we find that the value relevance of pension amounts is affected by the degree of uncertainty surrounding their estimation. Specifically, fair-value estimates seem to be more value relevant than smoothed estimates when the uncertainty surrounding the estimation is rela-tively high and thus information asymmetries and estimation risks are high. Not much difference exists in the value relevance of both types of estimates when the uncertainty is less pronounced.

Keywords: Pension Accounting, Fair Value, Value Relevance, Bootstrap Procedure

JEL Classification: G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fasshauer, Jan D. and Glaum, Martin, The Value Relevance of Pension Fair Values and Uncertainty (Oct 25, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1491237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1491237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
621
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,102
RANK
98,715
1 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies