Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The End of Asset Revaluation Reserve Distributions? An Analysis of the Government’s Latest Attack on Discretionary Trusts Performing Asset Revaluation Reserve Distributions.

Australian Tax Review, Vol. 33, No. 3, pp. 150-167, September 2004

4 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2009 Last revised: 28 Sep 2010

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: September 1, 2004

Abstract

On 19 February 2004 the Government finally introduced its proposed amendment to s 109UB of Div 7A of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) in response to the Board of Taxation’s recommendations. The Board had recommended amendments to improve the section’s fairness and to address the practice of asset revaluation reserve distributions, circumventing the section’s application. So, does the Government’s amendment successfully address the Board’s concerns, especially since the Government did not adopt the Board’s own proposed solutions? This article will outline the reasons for the Board’s original recommendations and the Government’s response. It will then critically review the amendments, focusing on its application to asset revaluation reserve distributions circumventing Div 7A’s operation.

Keywords: s 109UB, Div 7A, asset revaluation reserve distributions, discretionary trust

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett, The End of Asset Revaluation Reserve Distributions? An Analysis of the Government’s Latest Attack on Discretionary Trusts Performing Asset Revaluation Reserve Distributions. (September 1, 2004). Australian Tax Review, Vol. 33, No. 3, pp. 150-167, September 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1493126
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
964
RANK
588,428
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies