Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entity Taxation: The Inconsistency between Stated Policy and Actual Application

Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 458-490, 2005

18 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2009 Last revised: 28 Sep 2010

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

In 1998 when the government announced its proposal for a new tax system in its White Paper, Not a New Tax, A New Tax System (ANTS), it perceived there were a lot of inadequacies with the Australian tax system. The emphasis the government put on selling its reforms can be seen in the title of its paper, which tried to reassure Australians of the government’s overall aims.

One of the proposals contained in the White Paper was for the introduction of a new consistent entity regime for the taxing of income and distributions, known as entity taxation. The justifications put forward by the government for this recommendation was to provide simplicity, clarity and fairness, while also addressing techniques highlighted by the High Wealth Individual Taskforce (HWIT). This paper will examine the concerns that led to the government’s proposals, and what these proposals entailed. The paper will then critique the government’s initial justifications for its proposals by analysing the submissions lodged in response to the government’s Exposure Draft Bill. The paper will then determine whether there was any consistency between the government’s stated policy objectives and the actual application of the proposals. This analysis is important in explaining the government’s lack of success in implementing these reforms, as the government needs to appreciate that there needs to be consistency between its stated objectives and the actual legislation. Otherwise any proposed reforms can be easily discredited and shown to be lacking by comparing the reforms against their stated objectives.

Keywords: Australia, entity taxation, High Wealth Individual Taskforce, HWIT

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett, Entity Taxation: The Inconsistency between Stated Policy and Actual Application (2005). Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 458-490, 2005 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1493412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
767
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies