Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Sell-Side Financial Analysts' Use of Non-Financial Information

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2009

Raf Orens

Catholic University of Louvain (UCL) - Lessius University College

Nadine Lybaert

Hasselt University

Date Written: October 26, 2009

Abstract

This paper aims to research the context within which sell-side financial analysts make decisions to use corporate non-financial information. Prior research has demonstrated that financial analysts take into account non-financial information in their analyses of firms, but knowledge is scarce about what determines their use of this information. Based on a survey conducted among Belgian financial analysts, we observe a significant negative association between the financial analysts’ use of non-financial information and the earnings informativeness of firm’s financial statement information proxied by leverage and stock return volatility. We also find that a higher amount of non-financial information is used by less experienced financial analysts and by financial analysts covering a higher number of firms.

Keywords: financial analysts, market for information, non-financial information, use of non-financial information

Suggested Citation:

Orens, Raf and Lybaert, Nadine, Determinants of Sell-Side Financial Analysts' Use of Non-Financial Information (October 26, 2009). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1494296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
M Anderson
A comparative analysis of information search and evaluation behaviour of professional and non-professional financial analysts'. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 13 , issue 5 , p. 431 - 446 Posted: 1988
Crossref
R Banker , G Potter , D Srinivasan
An empirical investigation of an incentive plan that includes nonfinancial performance measures
Accounting Review , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 92 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Barker
The market for information: evidence from finance directors, analysts and fund managers'. Accounting and Business Research , volume 29 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R Barker
FRS3 and analysts' use of earnings'. Accounting and Business Research , volume 30 , p. 95 - 109 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,830
RANK
208,831
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Security Analysis, Agency Costs and Firm Characteristics

By John A. Doukas, Chansog (francis) Kim, ...

Security Analysis, Agency Costs, and Firm Characteristics

By John A. Doukas, Chansog (francis) Kim, ...

Security Analysis, Agency Costs and UK Firm Characteristics

By John A. Doukas, Christos Pantzalis, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies