Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Debt Covenants Worldwide: Institutional Determinants and Implications on Financial Reporting

59 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2009 Last revised: 26 Aug 2011

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Jieying Zhang

The University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: August 25, 2011

Abstract

This study investigates the use of debt covenants around the world. Based on a sample of 7,053 syndicated-loan borrowers from 23 countries, we find that debt covenants are more prevalent in countries with stronger law enforcement, more developed private credit market, and higher financial reporting quality, and that debt covenants are less prevalent in countries with more extensive creditor rights laws. In addition, we find that timely loss recognition increases with the use of debt covenants; and that this association is greater in countries with strong law enforcement. Overall, we are the first to comprehensively document the use of debt covenants across countries. Our findings shed light on how the use of accounting numbers in debt contracts responds to institutional arrangements that characterize contracting environments, and how it in turn shapes financial reporting practices across different legal regimes.

Keywords: Financial covenants, conservatism, cross-country studies, debt contracting

JEL Classification: M47, G15

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Hyun A. and Hung, Mingyi and Zhang, Jieying, The Use of Debt Covenants Worldwide: Institutional Determinants and Implications on Financial Reporting (August 25, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1496611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1496611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B Billings , M S Harris , R M Morton
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating debtholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C Anderson
Financial contracting under extreme uncertainty: an analysis of Brazilian corporate debenture
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 51 , p. 45 - 84 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
698
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,736
RANK
84,935
5 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Large-Sample Evidence on the Debt Covenant Hypothesis

By Ilia D. Dichev and Douglas J. Skinner

How Does Financing Impact Investment? The Role of Debt Covenants

By Sudheer Chava and Michael R. Roberts

Syndicated Loans

By Steven A. Dennis and Donald J. Mullineaux

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies