Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of Accounting Faculty Publishing Productivity in New Zealand

27 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 1999

Chris H. Durden

Massey University

Brett R. Wilkinson

Baylor University - Department of Accounting & Business Law

Abstract

In this paper we measure the publishing productivity of New Zealand university accounting departments for the period 1992-1997. Publication productivity is assessed in terms of both the quantity of articles published and the quality of the journals where the articles appear. Data is obtained from the Accounting and Tax Index, ABI Inform and directly from Australian and New Zealand journals. To achieve a comprehensive assessment of publishing productivity the articles are weighted using various measures of quality. We make particular use of the quality rankings develop by Zeff (1996). Not surprisingly, none of the universities ranked highly in all categories we examined. Which university did best depends on the evaluative criteria the reader wishes to employ.

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Durden, Chris H. and Wilkinson, Brett R., A Study of Accounting Faculty Publishing Productivity in New Zealand. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=149892 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.149892
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,948
RANK
292,525
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Familiarity with and Perceived Quality of Accounting Journals: Views of Senior Accounting Faculty in Leading U. S. MBA Programs

By Lawrence D. Brown and Ronald J. Huefner

Faculty Perceptions and Readership Patterns of Accounting Journals: A Global View

By Apostolos Ballas and Vasilis Theoharakis

A New Method for Ranking Academic Journals in Accounting and Finance

By Vivien A. Beattie and Alan Goodacre

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies