Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Quality and Stock Returns in the UK

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2009 Last revised: 20 Nov 2009

Sulaiman Mouselli

Arab International University

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Date Written: November 3, 2009

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to update and re-examine the role of corporate narrative reporting in improving investors’ ability to better forecast future earnings change. We also construct a risk factor for disclosure quality (DQ) and test whether such a factor is useful in explaining the time-series variation of UK stock returns. Our paper contributes to the market based accounting research in three crucial ways. Firstly, it offers updated evidence on the usefulness of corporate narrative reporting to investors. Secondly, it offers evidence that the DQ factor is a significant risk factor in the UK. Thirdly, and finally, it finds that the Fama-French factors might contain DQ related information.

Keywords: Narrative disclosure, Future oriented information, Value relevance, Fama-French factors, Stock return, United Kingdom

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G20

Suggested Citation:

Mouselli, Sulaiman and Hussainey, Khaled, Disclosure Quality and Stock Returns in the UK (November 3, 2009). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1499258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
C B Barry , S J Brown
Differential information and security market equilibrium
The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 20 , p. 407 - 422 Posted: 1985
Crossref
V Beattie , B Mcinnes , S Fearnley
Through the Eyes of Management: A Study of Narrative Disclosures
Research Report Posted: 2002
S Beretta , S Bozzolan
A framework for the analysis of firm risk communication
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 39 , p. 265 - 288 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Beretta , S Bozzolan
Quality versus quantity: the case of forwardlooking disclosure
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 375 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
540
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,000
RANK
118,061
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies