Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Attributes, Financial Distress and the Quality of Financial Reporting in Malaysia

40 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2009

Noor Marini Haji-Abdullah

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Wan Nordin Wan-Hussin

Universiti Utara Malaysia - College of Business

Date Written: November 4, 2009

Abstract

Audit committee effectiveness is one of the significant themes in corporate governance debates. We contribute to the debate by examining empirically whether audit committees imbued with the prime features are associated with reliable financial reporting in Malaysia. By using a more direct measure of financial reporting quality, this study is one of the few studies that overcome the imprecision inherent in the abnormal accruals/earnings management. The evidence suggests that the desirable characteristics which the policy makers believe would enhance the effectiveness of the audit committee in carrying out its financial oversight responsibilities do not seem to yield the intended consequence. We find an association between financial distress and financial reporting quality, consistent with Rosner (2003) and Garcia-Lara, Garcia-Osma, & Neophytou (2009). This reinforces the importance of including the distress variable in future corporate transparency studies.

Keywords: Audit committee, financial reporting quality, Malaysia

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Haji-Abdullah, Noor Marini and Wan-Hussin, Wan Nordin, Audit Committee Attributes, Financial Distress and the Quality of Financial Reporting in Malaysia (November 4, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1500134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1500134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S N Abdullah , N Mohd-Nasir
Accrual Management and the Independence of the Boards of Directors and Audit Committees
IIUM Journal of Economics and Management , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2004
R Abdul-Rahman , F H Mohamed-Ali
Board, Audit Committee, Culture and Earnings Management: Malaysian Evidence
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 783 - 804 Posted: 2006
Crossref
N A Ahmad-Zaluki , W N Wan-Hussin
Corporate Boards, Audit Committees and Quality of Financial Disclosures in IPOs Posted: 2009
Load more
7 Citations
Haishan Yu , Xiaowen Liu , Yisihong Zhou
The Effects of Zombie Firms on the Financial Information Transparency of Other Firms
Emerging Markets Finance and Trade , volume 58 , issue 9 , p. 2474 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Pankaj Kumar Gupta , Prabhat Mittal
Corporate Governance and Risk Bundling: Evidence from Indian Companies
European Journal of Business Science and Technology , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 37 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Khatiba Asmat Zahra , Quratulain Benish , Muhammad Umer , Muhammad Sadiq Shahid
Corporate Social Responsibility Moderates the Relationship of Corporate Governance and Investment Decisions; New insight from Emerging Markets
Journal of Accounting and Finance in Emerging Economies , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 75 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Hassnain Raghib Talab , Ali Noori Abdulzahra , Ghazwan Ayad Khalid Al-shiblawi , Hakeem Hammood Flayyih , Salau Abdulmalik
Corporate Governance Towards Sustainability Performance Quality: A Case of Listed Firms in Malaysia
Journal of Information Systems Engineering and Management , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 22882 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,575
RANK
36,646
7 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies