Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Equity Portfolio Investment Decision and Intellectual Capital Information

22 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2009 Last revised: 15 Jul 2010

Jun Yao

Kobe University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Ulf Johnson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Chitoshi Koga

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 6, 2009

Abstract

As the “new” economy which is supposedly mainly fueled by knowledge and ideas relentlessly marches on with globalization, intellectual capitals (IC), such as human capitals, structural and relationship capitals, are getting more and more attention, as they are expanding the horizon of the theory and practice of company valuation. The expanded horizon has certainly created anxieties and uncertainties among investors who have to make decisions involving investment in foreign equities.

The resulting uncertainties have triggered a torrent of research on using IC information in forecasting earnings and future cash flows, in valuation and on fund managers’ use of IC information in their investment decision process in an individual country. However, problems of how institutional investors view the role that IC information plays in different financial environments and in different markets of both developed and emerging markets remain largely a terra incognita in research waiting to be explored. Therefore, this paper aims to explore how institutional investors understand company IC information in complex international equity portfolio investment and how they use such information, if they use it at all, in the investment decision process, as well as the factors that influence the usage of IC information by fund managers.

Keywords: intellectual capital, international investment, non-financial information, decision making, institutional investor

Suggested Citation:

Yao, Jun and Johnson, Ulf and Koga, Chitoshi, International Equity Portfolio Investment Decision and Intellectual Capital Information (November 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1500827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1500827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,786
RANK
263,504
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies