Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compensation Consultants and CEO Pay: UK Evidence

49 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2008 Last revised: 31 Mar 2010

Georgios Voulgaris

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Konstantinos Stathopoulos

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2010

Abstract

This paper provides new evidence on the effect of compensation consultants on CEO pay. We show that the use of a compensation consultant has an increasing effect on the level of total CEO compensation, which is consistent with the “ratcheting up” effect of consultants on CEO pay argued by the managerial power approach. However, we also find that this influence on pay levels mainly stems from an increase in equity based compensation. In contrast, we report a negative influence of consultants on basic (cash) pay.We also show that economic determinants, rather than CEO power, explain the decision to hire compensation consultants. The results are robust to several model specifications, different controls for firm and governance characteristics and tests for selection bias. Overall, we offer new evidence suggesting that pay consultants contribute to the solution of the executive pay determination problem and are not part of the problem; our results cast doubts on the conclusions of the managerial power approach regarding the role of compensation consultants.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Compensation Consultants, Executive Compensation, Managerial Power Approach

JEL Classification: G34, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Voulgaris, Georgios and Stathopoulos, Konstantinos and Walker, Martin, Compensation Consultants and CEO Pay: UK Evidence (March 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1501186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1501186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An Empirical Investigation of Audit Fees, Nonaudit Fees, and Audit Committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Aggrawal , A Samwick
The other Side of the Trade-off: The Impact of Risk on Executive Compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Armstrong , C Ittner , D Larcker
Economic Characteristics, Corporate Governance, and the Influence of Compensation Consultants on Executive Pay Levels Posted: 2009
Crossref
G M Baker , M Jensen , K J Murphy
Compensation and Incentives: Practice vs Theory
Journal of Finance , volume 43 , p. 593 - 616 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,201
RANK
162,121
4 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies