Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Remedies for Banking Crises: Lessons from Japan

52 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2009

Linda Allen

Zicklin School of Business, Department of Economics and Finance, Baruch College - The City University of New York

Suparna Chakraborty

University of San Francisco

Wako Watanabe

Keio University

Date Written: November 9, 2009

Abstract

In this paper, we utilize a hand gathered, bank specific database covering the period 1993 to 2007 to empirically examine the reactions of individual Japanese banks to governmental policies designed to end Japan’s financial crisis. Our unique database allows us to examine the composition of Japanese bank lending across three sectors (commercial and industrial lending, residential real estate and non-residential real estate), as well as aggregate lending activity. Our empirical results suggest that substantial risk-based capital infusions (similar to the 2009 stress tests in the US) were effective at stimulating aggregate bank lending activity, whereas regulatory forbearance (in the form of changes in accounting valuation procedures) had only allocative effects on bank lending activity. Our analysis indicates that across the board capital infusions (similar to the TARP capital infusions in October 2008) were ineffective in impacting bank lending activity during the Japanese financial crisis. Moreover, we find that regulatory capital was a binding constraint on Japanese banks, inducing some to switch their charter and abandon their international operations in order to reduce their capital requirements. We draw parallels to the public policy programs implemented in the US during the 2007-2009 financial crisis and conclude that policies must be substantial in size and risk targeted to be effective.

Keywords: banking crisis, capital interventions, public injections, accounting changes, bank lending

JEL Classification: G15, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Linda and Chakraborty, Suparna and Watanabe, Wako, Regulatory Remedies for Banking Crises: Lessons from Japan (November 9, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1503000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1503000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
V V Acharya , L Pedersen , T Phillipon , M Richardson
Regulating Systemic Risk", forthcoming in Restoring Financial Stability: How to Repair a Failed System
Causes of the Financial Crisis , volume 21 , p. 195 - 210 Posted: 2009
D Bayazitova , A Shivdasani , A N Berger , G F Udell
Did Risk-Based Capital Allocate Bank Credit and Cause a 'Credit Crunch' in the United States?
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 26 , p. 585 - 628 Posted: 1994
B S Bernanke , C S Lown
The Credit Crunch
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , volume 2 , p. 205 - 253 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J A Bikker , H Hu
Cyclical Patterns in Profits, Provisioning and Lending of Banks and Procyclicality of the New Basel Capital Requirements
BNL Quarterly Review , issue 221 , p. 143 - 175 Posted: 2002-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,372
RANK
230,052
7 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Choice between Public and Private Debt: An Analysis of Post-Deregulation Corporate Financing in Japan

By Takeo Hoshi, Anil K. Kashyap, ...

Do Banking Shocks Affect Borrowing Firm Performance? An Analysis of the Japanese Experience

By Jun-koo Kang and René M. Stulz

Zombie Lending and Depressed Restructuring in Japan

By Ricardo J. Caballero, Takeo Hoshi, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies