Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating the International Audit Market and the Removal of Barriers to Entry: The Provision of Non Audit Services by Audit Firms and the 2006 Statutory Audit Directive

17 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2009

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: November 12, 2009

Abstract

From the responses received from the European Commission’s consultation on control structures in audit firms and their consequences on the audit market, a consultation which was launched in November 2008, and whose deadline was scheduled for the end of February 2009, the role played by the facilitation of greater access to external financial capital as a means of increasing access to the audit market, hence opening up the market for the audit of international companies to more suppliers, and encouraging new market players, was acknowledged. However, this factor on its own, coupled with the need to amend current rules on the control of audit firms, namely through a relaxation of the rules – beyond that which is currently permitted under Article 3 of the 2006 Statutory Audit Directive, was not considered to be the most important source of impediment to the emergence of new players. Other further possible catalysts, both on the supply side (namely auditors) and the demand side (companies), were also considered vital to efforts aimed at encouraging more players in gaining access to the international audit market. This paper will focus on greater access to external financial capital - as a means of lowering barriers to the international audit market. In arriving at the conclusion that the benefits associated with the external investor model outweigh the possible risks it generates, the paper not only considers theories on managerial behaviour and ownership structure, but also gives attention to the safeguards for audit independence as listed under the 2002 Statutory Auditors’ Independence in the EU: A Set of Fundamental Principles, and the 2006 Statutory Audit Directive. It will also consider why, in view of the limitations and restrictions placed on audit firms, with particular reference to the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, actions aimed at encouraging new market players at EU level, whilst ensuring that auditors’ independence and audit quality are not compromised, would also require a consideration of an international dimension of issues involved in lowering barriers to entry.

Keywords: 2006 Statutory Audit Directive, non audit services, regulation, audit concentration, governance, audit independence, Sarbanes Oxley Act

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, Regulating the International Audit Market and the Removal of Barriers to Entry: The Provision of Non Audit Services by Audit Firms and the 2006 Statutory Audit Directive (November 12, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1504703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1504703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
N O&apos;sullivan , M Sr Diacon ; See P Chan , D Ezzamel , Gwilliam
Determinants of audit fees for quoted U.K. companies
Governance and Non Audit Services on Audit Fees: Evidence from the Insurance Industry , volume 6 , p. 765 - 786 Posted: 1993
N O&apos;sullivan , S R Diacon , ; Mc Jensen , W H Meckling
Theory of the firm: managerial behaviour, agency costs and ownership structure
Governance and Non Audit Services on Audit Fees: Evidence from the Insurance Industry , volume 6 , p. 305 - 360 Posted: 1976
See &apos;summary Report
Consultation on Control Structures in Audit Firms and their Consequences on the Audit Market'at pages , volume 15
RECOMMENDATION of 16 May 2002 Statutory Auditors' Independence in the EU: A Set of Fundamental Principles Posted: 2009-11
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,961
RANK
399,022
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Relation between Auditors' Fees for Non-Audit Services and Earnings Management

By Richard M. Frankel, Marilyn F. Johnson, ...

Do Non-Audit Service Fees Impair Auditor Independence? Evidence from Going-Concern Audit Opinions

By Mark L. Defond, Kannan Raghunandan, ...

An Economic Analysis of Auditor Independence for a Multi-Client, Multi-Service Public Accounting Firm

By Rick Antle, Paul A. Griffin, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies