Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internationalising Business and Space-Time Segmentation in Reporting by Geographical Area

Proceedings of the 6th Conference of the Italian Chapter of AIS; 'Achieving Fusion in the Interconnected World: Exploring the Connection between Organizations and Technology', Olbia, Ottobre 2-3, 2009

9 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2009

Domenico Nicolò

University Mediterranea of Reggio Calabria

Date Written: November 13, 2009

Abstract

Development through internationalization is, at least logically, a rational response to the threat posed by foreign competitors. However, undertaking development through internationalization is not sufficient to achieve success. Profound changes are needed in leadership style, patterns of management process, organisational structure, the reporting system and the ERP systems used for management control. If this is not done, even the best internationalization strategy will fail. In this paper we consider only those changes regarding the reporting system which must be adopted so as to supply reporting by geographical segment. In international entities, reporting by geographical area is essential, both for management control and for the improved quality of external financial reporting. We know that creditors, investors and financial analysts evaluate information on the individual geographical segments, as well as that of the entity as a whole. Disclosing segment reporting by geographical area increases the confidence of the financial markets and, thus, should reduce the cost of equity and credit capital. In this paper, after having discussed the concept of geographical segment, we discuss the advantages of space-time segmentation, highlighting the superiority of the management approach compared to the risk/reward approach, for the definition of operating segment by geographical areas (and by LOB).

Keywords: space-time geographical reporting segment

JEL Classification: M47

Suggested Citation:

Nicolò, Domenico, Internationalising Business and Space-Time Segmentation in Reporting by Geographical Area (November 13, 2009). Proceedings of the 6th Conference of the Italian Chapter of AIS; 'Achieving Fusion in the Interconnected World: Exploring the Connection between Organizations and Technology', Olbia, Ottobre 2-3, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1505354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R T Balakrishnan , T Harris , P Sen
The predictive ability of geographical segment discl osures
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 1990
Crossref
B A Baldwin
Segment Earnings Disclosure and the Ability of Security Analysts to Forecast Earnings Per Share
The Accounting Review , volume 59 , p. 376 - 389 Posted: 1984
L D Brown
Financial Data and Decision Making by Sell-Side Analysts
The Journal of Financial Statement Analysis , p. 43 - 48 Posted: 1997
D Collins
Predicting earnings with sub-entity data: some further evidence
Journal of accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 163 - 177 Posted: 1976
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,597
RANK
552,835
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Segment Reporting and IAS 14: Toward a Theory

By Domenico Nicolò

Internationalisation, Competitiveness and Development of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises: Segment Reporting by Geographical Area and the Strategic Time And Cost Management of Logistical Processes

By Domenico Nicolò

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies