Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chapter 5 What’s Wrong with Corporate Governance ‘Best’ Practices?

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, H. Kent Baker, Ronald Anderson, eds., John Wiley & Sons Inc., New York, 2010

26 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2009

Shann Turnbull

International Institute for Self-Governance; Sustainable Money Working Group; New Garden City Alliance

Date Written: November 16, 2009

Abstract

This chapter critiques corporate governance practices widely promoted as being “best” for Publicly Traded Corporations (PTCs). The criteria used to identify good governance are those that minimize the involvement of Regulators or Law Makers with PTCs. The different drivers of corporate evolution in Europe and the United States explain the development of some of the counterproductive practices in Anglophone countries. These include directors obtaining inappropriate powers and conflicts of interests for directors and auditors. These intrinsically flawed practices have become enshrined as “best” practices in governance codes, governance metrics, regulations, securities exchanges, and the law. This chapter uses the natural laws of requisite variety, identified by mathematicians who founded the science of governance in the 1940’s to explain why current practices are not “best”. Natural laws explain why the communication and control architecture of PTCs and corporate regulators do not permit executives, directors, and regulators to directly monitor or control on a reliable basis the complex workings of modern firms without co-regulators.

Keywords: Audit conflicts, Director conflicts, Power, Network governance, Self-governance

JEL Classification: G34, G38, H11, K22, M14, P11

Suggested Citation:

Turnbull, Shann, Chapter 5 What’s Wrong with Corporate Governance ‘Best’ Practices? (November 16, 2009). CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, H. Kent Baker, Ronald Anderson, eds., John Wiley & Sons Inc., New York, 2010 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1506954
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Accountancyage
NAPF Urges Auditor Shake-up Posted: 2004-12-13
W Ashby , Ross
An Introduction to Cybernetics Posted: 1957
Max H Bazerman , George Loewenstein , Don A Moore
Why Good Accountants Do Bad Audits
Harvard Business Review , volume 80 , p. 95 - 98 Posted: 2002
Max H Bazerman , P Kimberly , George F Morgan , Loewenstein
The Impossibility of Auditor Independence
Sloan Management Review , volume 38 , p. 89 - 94 Posted: 1997
Load more
1 Citations
Shann Turnbull
How Do Multiple Boards Provide Operating Advantages?
Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2011 Paper · 27 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2010 · Last revised: 10 May 2011 · Downloads: 232
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,232
RANK
184,656
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Way to Govern

By Shann Turnbull

The Science of Corporate Governance

By Shann Turnbull

Corporate Charters with Competitive Advantages

By Shann Turnbull

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies