Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards for Intangibles Reporting

The Accounting World, Vol. 7, No. 10, pp. 21-28, 2007

8 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2009 Last revised: 11 Nov 2011

Pankaj M. Madhani

Former Dean (Academics) & Professor

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The value attached to intangible assets has increased manifold in the current era of knowledge economy. Intangible assets are a major tool for firms to build competitive advantages. As firms now become more knowledge and information-based, intangible assets will comprise a significant percentage of the overall value of businesses. It’s the intangible assets that create value and decide a firm’s future growth potential. Although all intangible assets are very valuable and critical to a firm, according to current accounting practices all of them can’t be recognized as assets in the balance sheet of a firm. This article discusses many issues of IAS 38 for intangible assets.

Keywords: Intangible Assets, Accounting Standard

Suggested Citation:

Madhani, Pankaj M., Accounting Standards for Intangibles Reporting. The Accounting World, Vol. 7, No. 10, pp. 21-28, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1507650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,098
RANK
146,822
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies