Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Trusts: Part III

New Zealand Current Taxation, Vol. 25, No. 10, p. 168, February 27, 1981

12 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2009 Last revised: 19 Nov 2009

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: February 1, 1981

Abstract

Trusts fit uneasily into any tax system. The beneficiary should be taxed on any trust income received; yet the trustee also receives income that is amenable to taxation. It would not be fair for the income to be taxed to both the beneficiary and the trustee, yet neither should the trustee escape tax on income that is not paid immediately to the beneficiary.

This article is the third of three that examine the taxation of trusts in New Zealand under the Income Tax Act 1976. See also “The Taxation of Trusts: Part I” [1980] 25 New Zealand Current Taxation 109 and “The Taxation of Trusts: Part II” [1981] 25 New Zealand Current Taxation 134.

Part III concludes the series by examining more miscellaneous aspects of the taxation of trusts. The article examines: whether the provisions of the Income Tax Act 1976 that relate to trusts constitute a code; taxation of foreign-source beneficiaries income and trustees’ income; the character of trust income derived by beneficiaries; what happens where income for trust purposes differs from income for tax purposes; deductions; losses; and the taxation of business and unit trusts and other trusts that do not fall within sections the trust-specific provisions of the Act.

Keywords: trusts, tax law, income tax

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, The Taxation of Trusts: Part III (February 1, 1981). New Zealand Current Taxation, Vol. 25, No. 10, p. 168, February 27, 1981, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1507278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,086
RANK
658,539
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies