Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Aggregated vs. Disaggregated Book Value and Earnings: Evidence from Malaysian High-Tech Firms

Malaysian Accounting Review, Vol. 9, No. 1, pp 1-17, 2010

18 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2011 Last revised: 17 Apr 2012

Mohd Halim Kadri

Universiti Teknologi MARA Johore Branch

M. K. Ibrahim

Taibah University

Rozainun Abdul Aziz

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Date Written: November 1, 2009

Abstract

This study aimed at investigating the value relevance of aggregated and disaggregated book value and earnings of high-tech firms listed on Bursa Malaysia for the period from 2003-2008. Using the Ohlson (1995) basic and modified equity valuation models, this study investigated whether disaggregated book value and earnings could explain the variation in market value better than aggregated book value and earnings. The results of the basic model show that the explanatory powers of both book value and earnings are fluctuating with book value is in a decreasing trend whereas earnings is in an increasing trend. The results of the modified models show that disaggregated book value and earnings could explain the variation in market value better than aggregated book value and earnings.

Keywords: market value, book value, earnings, Malaysia, high-tech

JEL Classification: G21, M43

Suggested Citation:

Kadri, Mohd Halim and Ibrahim, Muhd Kamil and Abdul Aziz, Rozainun, Value Relevance of Aggregated vs. Disaggregated Book Value and Earnings: Evidence from Malaysian High-Tech Firms (November 1, 2009). Malaysian Accounting Review, Vol. 9, No. 1, pp 1-17, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1508885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C Abad , A Garcia-Borbolla , J Laffarga , M Larran , J Pinero
Relevancia de la Informacion Consolidada: Un Estudio Empirico
Analisis Financiero , volume 11 , p. 6 - 19 Posted: 1999
D Aboody
Market Valuation of Employee Stock Options
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 357 - 391 Posted: 1996
Crossref
E Amir
The Market Evaluation of Accounting Information: The Case of Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , p. 703 - 724 Posted: 1993-10
K.-H Bae , S W Jeong
The Value-relevance of Earnings and Book Value, Ownership Structure, and Business Group Affiliation: Evidence From Korean Business Groups
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 34 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 740 - 766 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,372
RANK
422,861
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies