Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legal Cases and Auditing in China

Chong, G. (2009) “Legal cases and auditing in China” in Singh, S. (ed). Handbook of Business Practices and Growth in Emerging Markets World Scientific Books: New Jersey, USA (ISBN 978-981-279-177-1), 101-116, http://www.worldscibooks.com/business/6745.html

16 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2009 Last revised: 22 Mar 2021

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: October 22, 2009

Abstract

Over the last decades, the world has witnessed the political and economic revolutions in the People's Republic of China. The administration of the country has constantly called for changes to its directions to continuously boost its economic power, business culture, and accountability. Audit is the tool to help project transparency and identify reliability in the control systems. This chapter assesses the extent of audit changes within the country based on the four audit reports issued by its National Audit Office (NAO) in 2005. The finding shows positive approaches adopted by the administration, in particular the NAO, but there are areas that need further improvements. The recommendations have implications to the policy makers, audit profession, and users of the audit reports.

Keywords: Emerging Markets, Growth, Business Practices, International Business, International Marketing, Developing Country, Transitional Economies

Suggested Citation:

Chong, H Gin, Legal Cases and Auditing in China (October 22, 2009). Chong, G. (2009) “Legal cases and auditing in China” in Singh, S. (ed). Handbook of Business Practices and Growth in Emerging Markets World Scientific Books: New Jersey, USA (ISBN 978-981-279-177-1), 101-116, http://www.worldscibooks.com/business/6745.html, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1509883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,253
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Macroeconomic Issues in Developing Economies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies