Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is the Role of Auditing Firm in M&A Activity?

Posted: 20 Nov 2009 Last revised: 1 Mar 2010

Jidong Zhang

Winona State University

Liyan Wang

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Hao Cui

Sun Yat-Sen University - School of Business

Date Written: July 2, 2009

Abstract

Accounting firms in M & A activities, the status and role has long been a topic of concern to regulatory agencies and corporate managers. Collected from China's capital market in the 2005-2006 M & A cases as samples, analysis of accounting firms in merger and acquisition activity in the status and the possible role of, and in particular contrast to the international Big Four accounting firms and the domestic top ten accounting firms in the M & A activity in the play. The results showed that, if the parties choose to deal with an accounting firm, for M & A side value of the company after the merger had no significant effect. However, if the international Big Four accounting firms as a merger of both accounting firms, accounting firms the choice of this method for the merger parties’ post-merger value of the company has a significant positive effect. Domestic top ten accounting firms accounting firms are chose, this means the choice of accounting firms for mergers and acquisitions side of the ex post value of the company had no significant effect. It is believed that the international Big Four accounting firms accounting firms as a mergers and acquisitions of both sides when compared to the domestic top ten accounting firms in the mergers and acquisitions play a different role, so it impacts the redistribution of interest in M & A activity. This reasoning is in line with the sociology of social structure theory, if third-party accounting firm have different resources, they have the opportunity to use their social networks in the enterprise in a favorable position and affect the network distribution of the results of the various business interests.

Keywords: M&A, auditing firm, firm value

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Jidong and Wang, Liyan and Cui, Hao, What is the Role of Auditing Firm in M&A Activity? (July 2, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1509422
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,843
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies