Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Segment Reporting and IAS 14: Toward a Theory

Emerging Issues in International Accounting Conference: “Emerging Issues in International Accounting and Business 2006”, Proceedings Vol. 2, University of Padua July 20-22, 2006

9 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2009

Domenico Nicolò

University Mediterranea of Reggio Calabria

Date Written: July 20, 2006

Abstract

This paper aims to focus on the contribution made by segment reporting to the improvement of the reporting potential of the financial statement and of internal reporting used for decision making and for management control.

This study takes its cue from the fundamental principles laid down by IAS 14 and reaches the conclusion that external segment reporting through the financial statement, in the same way as internal segment reporting, must be considered as a subsystem of overall reporting used by management for decision making. Segment reporting, therefore, is achieved by attributing accounting values to segments corresponding to centres of responsibility and, through subsequent aggregations, to reportable business segments and/or geographical segments reportable to stakeholders and to management.

By overcoming the distinction between internal and external segment reporting, the reporting process is simplified and the costs of producing external reports are reduced, there is a reduction in the asymmetry between the level of information available to management and that available to stakeholders and, consequently, the entity can exploit the advantages deriving from increased stakeholder confidence: increased revenue from sales to customer imprese and reduced cost of venture capital, of financing and of the other resources contributed by stakeholders.

If the entiy uses internal segment reporting to carry out external business reporting and/or geographical reporting, moreover, management has the necessary information during the accounting period to exercise control of segment performance and to make choices aimed at improving results and reducing segment risk.

Keywords: IAS 14, Segment reporting

Suggested Citation:

Nicolò, Domenico, Segment Reporting and IAS 14: Toward a Theory (July 20, 2006). Emerging Issues in International Accounting Conference: “Emerging Issues in International Accounting and Business 2006”, Proceedings Vol. 2, University of Padua July 20-22, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1510372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
D F Abell
Defining the business. The starting point of strategic planning Posted: 1980
R T Balakrishnan , T Harris , P Sen
1990 (Autumn). The predictive ability of geographical segment disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research
Crossref
L D Brown
1997 (Spring). Financial data and decision making by sell-side analysts
The Journal of Financial Statement Analysis
V Coda
Posted: 1965
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,517
RANK
175,588
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Internationalising Business and Space-Time Segmentation in Reporting by Geographical Area

By Domenico Nicolò

Internationalisation, Competitiveness and Development of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises: Segment Reporting by Geographical Area and the Strategic Time And Cost Management of Logistical Processes

By Domenico Nicolò

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies