Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender Accounting: A Means to Ensuring Gender Equity for National Development

Posted: 21 Nov 2009 Last revised: 10 Jan 2010

Lubabah Mansur Kwanbo

Kaduna State University

Date Written: November 18, 2009

Abstract

Nigeria’s development for much of the period of its independence has been faced with quite a hand full of factors militating against its achieving not only development but a sustainable development for that matter, despite its endowment with identified and untapped mineral resources. One very clear factor is the issue of Gender equity in the formal sector of its labour force. This paper seeks to establish if the absence of Gender equity in the labour force affects the process of development and to what extent has Gender specification in the labour force affected sustainable development. To this end, primary sources of data were employed in a cross section of the formal part of the labour market in Kaduna state civil service, while descriptive statistics as in Anova and multi regression analysis were used as the techniques for data analysis. This study discovered that a significant relationship exist between gender equity in the labour force and the country’s development. This is because the complementary, domestic, and natural roles female play in the society has reduced poverty to some extent, and increased too, development. In this light, this paper recommends among others that for employment procedures to emphasize equity in gender for all intent and purposes.

Keywords: Gender Accounting, Gender Equity, National Development

Suggested Citation:

Kwanbo, Lubabah Mansur, Gender Accounting: A Means to Ensuring Gender Equity for National Development (November 18, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1510510
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
758
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies