Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Effects of Mandatory IFRS Reporting in the EU: Empirical Evidence

85 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2009 Last revised: 17 Dec 2009

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Date Written: October 15, 2007

Abstract

This report provides a review of the academic literature relevant to the mandatory adoption of IFRS reporting for member countries of the European Union in 2005 and an empirical analysis of the associated capital-market effects. In the empirical analysis, we focus on the effects on firms' costs of capital and market liquidity. More specifically, we analyze the effect of mandated IFRS reporting on the implied cost of equity capital, percentage bid-ask spreads, the price impact of trades and the frequency of zero-return days. The analysis provides a mixed picture for the capital-market effects of mandatory IFRS reporting in the EU. For the mandatory IFRS period, we find some evidence that the cost of capital is lower for all firms reporting under IFRS and for those that adopted IFRS for the first time in 2005 (relative to non-IFRS firms). The effects are small in magnitude and depend on the choice of benchmark sample. However, it is possible that the results are weakened by anticipation effects in markets ahead of IFRS adoption. The liquidity proxies provide stronger results that are robust across different benchmarks. In particular, the findings for the price impact of trades and for the frequency of zero-return days suggest improvements in market liquidity after IFRS reporting becomes mandatory. The results for the bid-ask spreads point in the same direction, but are weaker. The results for all three liquidity proxies become statistically significant when we introduce firm-fixed effects. However, we caution to attribute the observed effects solely or even primarily to the adoption of IFRS itself. Recently many EU countries have changed their enforcement (and governance) regimes, which could play an important role in our findings.

Keywords: Regulation, International accounting, European Union, IAS, Disclosure, Market liquidity, Cost of equity

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G30, K22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hail, Luzi and Leuz, Christian, Capital Market Effects of Mandatory IFRS Reporting in the EU: Empirical Evidence (October 15, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1511671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1511671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
D Abellán , J Aledo
Impact of IFRS on Accounting Returns and Accounting-Based Residual Income Model: Does it Work? Posted: 2007
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 515 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
The Effects of Beta, Bid-Ask Spread, Residual Risk and Size on Stock Returns
Journal of Finance , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,680
RANK
15,488
37 Citations
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies