Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Meaning of 'Beneficial Ownership' in Double Tax Agreements

British Tax Review, No. 3, 2009

31 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2009

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: November 24, 2009

Abstract

This article considers the significance of the term "beneficial ownership" in Articles 10, 11 and 12 of the OECD Model Double Tax Convention (“the Model”), and looks at features of commonly used cross-border structures (structured finance and holding companies) by way of practical background to the question of how significant this issue is in international tax structures.

The ability for a multinational to successfully insert a resident of a more favourable Double Tax Treaty, between the country of the source of income and the ultimate recipient depends, inter alia, on the question of whether the interposed entity can be said to be the “beneficial owner” of the income.

In seeking to find a meaning for the term "beneficial ownership" the article considers: a) the approach of New Zealand Courts (as an example of a common law country) to the interpretation of Double Tax Conventions and the reliance upon the Vienna Convention, b) the use, under Article 3(2) of the Model, of either a domestic meaning or autonomous international meaning for the term, and weighs up the relative merits of each approach, c) analyses three recent UK, French and Canadian cases and their decision, both on the issue referred to above in b) and on their conclusions as to the meaning of the term, and d) lastly, predicts what a New Zealand Court will decide on the meaning of the term, having regard to the treaty, statutory and case law position (both NZ and foreign), including the question of whether there is a difference between tightly structured financing transactions (interest) and holding companies (dividends).

Keywords: Beneficial ownership, Double Tax agreements, Articles 10,11, and 12, Article 3(2)

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, The Meaning of 'Beneficial Ownership' in Double Tax Agreements (November 24, 2009). British Tax Review, No. 3, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1512949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,239
RANK
36,802
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies