Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgeting Practices and Performance in Small Healthcare Businesses

Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2009

Robyn King

University of Queensland - Business School

Peter Clarkson

University of Queensland - Business School; Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Sandra Wallace

College of Business, Law and Governance

Date Written: November 24, 2009

Abstract

We present evidence linking primary healthcare business characteristics, budgeting practices, and business performance. Based on a sample of 144 responses from a survey of members of the Australian Association of Practice Managers (AAPM), we find that factors identified by contingency-based research are useful for predicting a business’s budgeting practices. Specifically, we find the adoption of written budgets to be related to size and structure, and for businesses using written budgets, the extent of use is related to business structure, strategy and perceived environmental uncertainty. Finally, we find evidence of a relationship between budgeting practice and performance. Here, we initially find a business’s performance to be positively associated with the use of written budgets. More refined tests of the “fit” between business contingency factors and extent of operating budget use then provide evidence of a positive association between the extent of “fit” and performance.

Keywords: Budgeting, SME, Healthcare Businesses

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

King, Robyn and Clarkson, Peter and Wallace, Sandra, Budgeting Practices and Performance in Small Healthcare Businesses (November 24, 2009). Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1512242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M Abernethy , W F Chua , J Grafton , H Mahama
Accounting and Control in Health Care: Behavioural, Organisational, Sociological and Critical Perspectives
Handbook of Management Accounting Research , volume 2 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Australia's Health Posted: 2008
Private Medical Practices Australia, Cat. 8685.0 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Auzair , K Langfield-Smith
The effect of service process type, business strategy and life cycle stage on bureaucratic MCS in service organisations
Management Accounting Research , volume 16 , p. 399 - 421 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Beatriz Garcia Osma , Jacobo Gomez-Conde , Ernesto Lopez-Valeiras
Management Control Systems and Real Earnings Management: Effects on Firm Performance
Management Accounting Research · 65 Pages · Posted: 16 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 5 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 648
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
652
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,983
RANK
92,754
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Management Accounting Systems Adoption Decisions: Evidence and Performance Implications from Startup Companies

By Tony Davila and George Foster

Introducing the First Management Control Systems: Evidence from the Retail Sector

By Tatiana Sandino

Financial Statement and Projection Preparation in Start-Up Ventures

By Gavin Cassar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies