Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Economic Analysis of Cross-Listing Decisions and Their Impact on Earnings Quality

Schmalenbach Business Review, Vol. 61, pp. 310-330, July 2009

21 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2009

Roland Koenigsgruber

SKEMA Business School

Date Written: July 1, 2009

Abstract

I examine the conditions under which entrepreneurs signal the high quality of their projects by cross-listing their firms in a jurisdiction with stricter enforcement of financial reporting regulation. I analyze the effect of these cross-listing decisions on international earnings quality, using a model of earnings management and financial reporting enforcement in which stricter enforcement makes accounting manipulation more costly. The analysis shows that firms can use cross-listing decisions to signal high quality projects even in the absence of listing costs. Cross-listing to a jurisdiction with stricter enforcement sometimes actually increases earnings management and generally leads to less earnings management among firms remaining in the domestic market.

Keywords: Analytical Accounting, Cross-Listing, Earnings Management, Earnings Quality, Enforcement

JEL Classification: G18, M48

Suggested Citation:

Koenigsgruber, Roland, An Economic Analysis of Cross-Listing Decisions and Their Impact on Earnings Quality (July 1, 2009). Schmalenbach Business Review, Vol. 61, pp. 310-330, July 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1514439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Anil Arya , Jonathan Glover , Shyam Sunder
Earnings management and the Revelation Principle
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 3 , p. 7 - 34 Posted: 1998
Ray Ball , Ashok Robin , Joanna Shuang Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Ray Ball , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Ray Ball , S P Kothari , Ashok Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,027
RANK
328,705
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies