Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Involvement of Management Accountants in Strategic Management Processes Enhance Organisations’ Strategic Effectiveness? An Empirical Analysis

36 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2009

Aldónio Ferreira

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Carly Moulang

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 1, 2009

Abstract

The role of management accountants (MAs) within organisations is said to be in a state of change and researchers have called for a greater involvement of MAs in strategic management processes (SMPs) as a means of regaining the ‘relevance lost’ and increasing the value creation of their activities. Although such arguments are compelling, there is neither research examining the nature of involvement of MAs in the SMP, in particular in the formulation of strategy, nor whether such involvement enhances organisations’ strategic effectiveness. To investigate these issues, we conducted a postal survey of members of CPA Australia and obtained 280 usable observations. We find that MAs’ were involved in both the strategic formulation and implementation of the SMP and a strong positive association between the involvement in these two stages. More fundamentally, we find that strategic effectiveness is significantly impacted by MAs involvement in strategic implementation. However, the effect on strategic effectiveness of MAs involvement in the strategic formulation was found to be fully mediated by involvement in strategic implementation. Finally, we find that combining involvement in strategic implementation with strategic formulation has a positive effect on strategic effectiveness, thus supporting the argument for a greater involvement of MAs in the entire SMP.

Keywords: Strategic effectiveness, strategic management process, management accountant, partial least squares, survey

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, Aldónio and Moulang, Carly, Does the Involvement of Management Accountants in Strategic Management Processes Enhance Organisations’ Strategic Effectiveness? An Empirical Analysis (December 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1515670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1515670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Managment control systems and the crafting of strategy: a practice-based view Posted: 2005
T M Amabile
The social psychology of creativity Posted: 1983
R Baron , D Kenny
The Moderator-Mediator Variable Distinction in Social Psychological Research: Conceptual, Strategic, and Statistical Considerations
Journal of Personality & Social Psychology , volume 51 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
A Bhimani , K Langfield-Smith
Structure, formality and the importance of financial and non-financial information in strategy development and implementation
Management Accounting Research , volume 18 , p. 3 - 31 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
504
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,047
RANK
128,474
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Cross-Sectional Field Studies in Management Accounting Research - Closing the Gaps between Surveys and Case Studies

By Anne M. Lillis and Julia Mundy

Towards a More Comprehensive Understanding of the Roles of Management Accountants

By Sean M. Byrne and Bernard Pierce

Perceptions of Management Accounting Services

By Kenton B. Walker, Gary Fleischman, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies