Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS and Environmental Accounting

34 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2009

Minga Negash

Metropolitan State University of Denver; University of the Witwatersrand

Date Written: December 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines whether International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) can be used for monitoring environmental degradations. The paper critically examines the contemporary environmental accounting literature, and attempts to find a mandatory reporting mechanism in the contexts of accounting for a public good and REA (resource, event, action) accounting of McCarthy (1982). It selects the relevant financial reporting standards and examines their strengths and weaknesses. Using qualitative and case study research method, the financial statements of three global mining companies that are operating in an environmentally sensitive sector were studied. The study finds that the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines and private sector self-regulation are insufficient to monitor environmental disclosure. The paper proposes a mandated separate statement of environmental assets and liabilities. The elements of the proposed statement are discussed.

Keywords: IFRS, GRI, environmental accounting, sustainability reports, mining companies, environmental assets and liabilities, Africa

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, Q56, Q51 Q20 N27, D53, D63

Suggested Citation:

Negash, Minga, IFRS and Environmental Accounting (December 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1516837 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1516837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
R Durand , A Tarca
An investigation of the usefulness of accounting data in extractive industry operations Posted: 2008
Freedman , B Jaggi
Environmental Accounting: commitment or propaganda
Advances in environmental accounting and management , volume 3 Posted: 2006
M Freedman , C Wasley
The association between environmental performance and environmental disclosure in annual reports and 10Ks
Advances in Public Interest Accounting , p. 183 - 193 Posted: 1990
J G Frynas
Social and environmental litigation against transnational firms in Africa
The Journal of Modern African Studies , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 363 - 388 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,582
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,694
RANK
7,335
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies