Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Properties of Bank’s Accounting Numbers in an International Context Before and After the Introduction of IFRS: A Value Relevance Perspective

19 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2009

Edmondo Tudini

SDA Bocconi

Date Written: December 1, 2009

Abstract

This study concentrates on properties of banks’ accounting numbers in an international context before and after the introduction of IFRS. In particular the objective is to answer to the followings four questions: (1) Are there systematic differences in value relevance between banks’ earnings and book value across European countries and US‘ (2) Do banks’ book value and earnings convey different information to stock valuation‘ (3) Do banks accounting earnings present different properties in US and Europe‘ (4) What changed with the introduction of IFRS in Europe‘ Data show that before the introduction of IFRS banks’ earnings and book value, together, in Italy and France were as value relevant as in US, while in Germany the value relevance appears inferior. Looking to valuation properties of banks’ accounting numbers across countries considered, data show that in US and surprisingly in Germany earnings dominated book value, while the opposite happened in France. In Italy both earnings and book value had statistically significant incremental explanatory power. The results of the analyses performed change radically in 2005 after the introduction of IFRS in Europe. European banks’ earnings become more value relevant and dominate book value as in US. In particular, as in US, earnings appear very timely but not conservative. All together the results suggest that, in a value relevance perspective, the introduction of IFRS has standardized the quality of banks’ earnings and book value worldwide. Furthermore is confirmed banking industry’s speciality, actually the properties of banks’ accounting numbers, although standardised worldwide, appear different from those of industrial firms’ accounting numbers as reported in previous international accounting literature. This evidence could suggest the need for special accounting standards dedicated to financial institutions.

Keywords: Banks, value relevance, IFRS, accounting standards

JEL Classification: M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Tudini, Edmondo, The Properties of Bank’s Accounting Numbers in an International Context Before and After the Introduction of IFRS: A Value Relevance Perspective (December 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1516325 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1516325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball
Daimler-Benz AG: evolution of corporate governance from a code-law ''stakeholder'' to a common-law ''shareholder value'' system Posted: 1998
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rachel F. Baskerville
100 Questions (and Answers) About IFRS
64 Pages · Posted: 25 Jan 2010 · Last revised: 31 Jul 2017 · Downloads: 7,340
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,812
RANK
333,158
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies