Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Value Relevance Studies: Country Differences versus Specification Effects

43 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2009 Last revised: 13 Oct 2012

Stefan Veith

University of Applied Sciences Bremen - School of International Business Bremen

Joerg R. Werner

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management - Accounting Department

Date Written: December 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper sheds light on the sensitivity of findings in comparative (international) value relevance studies in regards to two fundamental methodological choices: We argue (and find) that both model choice (the regression vs. the portfolio returns specification) and return window choice are not arbitrary. They have an impact on country rankings and the significance of cross-country differences in comparative designs. Findings with respect to return window choice are likely to be explained by comparative international value relevance studies not only testing for the relevance and reliability of accounting information, but also jointly testing the hypothesis that accounting information is processed similarly across countries. Our results indicate that this joint hypothesis does not always hold and that, thus, previous comparative studies might have overstated accounting quality differences across countries. The findings are based on a treatment sample of 56,000 firm-year observations from 12 countries and from 12 matched U.S. control samples, with observations from 1988 and 2007, respectively.

Keywords: Value Relevance, Market Efficiency, Cross-Country Comparison

JEL Classification: M41, F36, C12, C31

Suggested Citation:

Veith, Stefan and Werner, Jörg Richard, Comparative Value Relevance Studies: Country Differences versus Specification Effects (December 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1517046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1517046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Lev Aboody
The Value Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Drago Agostino , Silipo
The value relevance of IFRS in the European banking industry
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 437 - 457 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Jones Alford , Zmijewski Leftwich
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Hwang Ali
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,544
RANK
407,466
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies