Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and the Welfare-State: The Missing Link

30 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2009

Tim-Frederik Oehr

University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Jochen Zimmermann

University of Bremen - Chair of Accounting and Control; University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Date Written: July 1, 2009

Abstract

In recent years accounting regulation has internationalized with the extensive use and adoption of IFRS by nation-states which points at least at a formal convergence of accounting systems. But still major differences between national accounting systems persist. In this paper it is argued that the accounting system of countries is influenced by the type of the welfare-state. This allows us to see accounting in a broader social perspective. The societal attitudes influencing the ac-counting system are captured by using the Esping-Andersen classification of welfare states and show that the aims of accounting are reflecting the regime of the welfare-state. To show that there is a connection between the typology of welfare-states and the degree of balancing interests between corporate constituencies, we compare Germany as an example for a conservative welfare-state and the UK as an example for a liberal welfare-state. According to this, it can be shown that the type of welfare state exerts an influence to the system of accounting and therefore can be seen as explanatory variable for persisting differences of accounting systems.

Keywords: Comparative Accounting Research, Institutionalism, Critical Perspective

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Oehr, Tim-Frederik and Zimmermann, Jochen and Zimmermann, Jochen, Accounting and the Welfare-State: The Missing Link (July 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1517054 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1517054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an Economically Efficient System of Public Financial Reporting and Disclosure
BrookingsWharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W Beaver , S G Ryan
Conditional and Unconditional Conservatism: Concepts and Modelling
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 269 - 309 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Bentele
Immaterielle Vermögenswerte in der Unternehmensberichterstattung Posted: 2004
A H Boersch-Supan , J K Winter
Population Aging, Savings Behavior and Capital Markets. Series Working Paper Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Lisa‐Uyen Nguyen , Asheq Rahman
From Totalitarianism to Capitalism – the Case of IFRS Adoption in Vietnam
Accounting & Finance, Vol. 59, Issue 3, pp. 1649-1680, 2019 · 32 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,312
RANK
422,861
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies