Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of IFRS 3: The Effects of Managerial Discretion and Stock Market Reactions

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Dec 2009

Mattias Hamberg

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Mari Paananen

University of Hertfordshire

Jiri Novak

Institute of Economic Studies, Faculty of Social Sciences, Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic

Date Written: December 3, 2009

Abstract

In recent years, several accounting standards, including IFRS 3, issued by the IASB substitute historical cost with fair value measures and so provide managers with increased discretion to determine the fair value without an actual market for the asset. Using Swedish data, we document the accounting consequences of the adoption of IFRS 3 and the stock market’s reaction. After the adoption of this standard in January 2005 the amount of capitalized goodwill increased substantially. Goodwill impairments under IFRS are considerably lower than goodwill amortizations and impairments made under Swedish GAAP. Consequently, the adoption of IFRS 3 increased reported earnings. An analysis of economic incentives influencing the impairment decision at the initial adoption of IFRS 3 shows that tenured management is negatively associated with the impairment decision. However, most firms did not reclassify goodwill or make additional impairments. Firms with substantial amounts of goodwill yielded abnormally high returns despite abnormally low earnings. Investors seem to, correctly or incorrectly, have viewed the accrual-based increase in earnings stemming from IFRS 3 as an indication of higher future cash flows.

Keywords: goodwill, IFRS 3, impairments, managerial discretion, accounting choice, Sweden

JEL Classification: M44, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hamberg, Mattias and Paananen, Mari and Novak, Jiri, The Adoption of IFRS 3: The Effects of Managerial Discretion and Stock Market Reactions (December 3, 2009). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1517774
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,333
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies