Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism and Transitory Earnings in Value and Growth Strategies

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Dec 2009

Mattias Hamberg

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Jiri Novak

Institute of Economic Studies, Faculty of Social Sciences, Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic

Date Written: December 3, 2009

Abstract

The value premium earned on value and growth investment strategies increases after adjusting for transitory earnings and for the accounting conservatism bias in the book value of equity. Simple investment strategies based on earnings-to-price (E/P) and book-to-market (B/M) performed on the Swedish stock market between 1980 and 2004 generate an annual value premium of 11 to 14 percent. Adjustments for transitory earnings and for the conservatism bias increase the value premium by 2 to 4 percentage points, and at the same time they improve the consistency of earning it. These results suggest that transitory earnings and accounting conservatism introduce noise into E/P and B/M measures. Adjusting for these accounting characteristics makes the identification based on E/P and B/M more effective.

Keywords: market efficiency, value strategy, growth strategy, earnings-to-price, book-to-market, transitory earnings, accounting conservatism

JEL Classification: G14

Suggested Citation:

Hamberg, Mattias and Novak, Jiri, Accounting Conservatism and Transitory Earnings in Value and Growth Strategies (December 3, 2009). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1517805
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,818
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies