Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Investor Protection Regime and the Effectiveness of Outside Directorship on the Board: An Empirical Essay

39 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2010 Last revised: 24 Sep 2010

Jag Pathak PhD, CPA, CGA, CFF, CFE, CISA

University of Windsor - Odette School of Business

Jerry Sun

University of Windsor - Odette School of Business

Date Written: September 8, 2010

Abstract

We empirically identify exploratory evidence suggesting the potential for establishing an international corporate governance law protecting investors in relation to the outside directors on the board. Our conclusions are consistent with the principles proposed by OECD in 2004. Our study motivates by the institutionalizing aspects of laws pertaining to the governance of firms in international perspective. We obtain motivation from the published literature in accounting and finance domain to identify the answer to our research question. Existing evidence regarding whether outside directors on the board of directors can effectively constrain earnings management by firms leaves unaddressed the international context. We document international evidence that higher outside directorship on the board is associated with lower earnings management. We also find evidence that investor protection law does not affect the association between earnings management and board outside directorship. The results suggest that outside directors can play a similar role in monitoring the financial reporting process irrespective of whether they sit on the board in strong or weak investor protection law countries. Our findings support the internationalization of corporate regulations and practices on board governance as evinced in the OECD study.

Keywords: Investor Protection, Corporate Governance, Internationalization of Governance Regulations, Strong, and Weak Investor Protection Regime

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pathak Phd, CPA, CGA, CFF, CFE, CISA, Jagdish and Sun, Jerry, International Investor Protection Regime and the Effectiveness of Outside Directorship on the Board: An Empirical Essay (September 8, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1520456 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1520456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R B Adams , Daniel Ferreira
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review Forthcoming Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,861
RANK
383,022
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies