Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FRS 36: An Analysis of the Compliance Level and Disclosure Quality of Singaporean Listed Firms

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 18-42, June 2008

22 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2009 Last revised: 12 Feb 2010

Khairil Faizal Khairi

Macquarie Graduate School of Management

Date Written: June 1, 2008

Abstract

The issue of goodwill has been a topic of intense debate. In response to growing concerns voiced around the issue, new standards which provide firms the unique opportunity to provide more transparent financial disclosures by reporting goodwill impairments when viewed by financial reporting users are required. The reporting framework in Singapore that deals with the disclosure of goodwill accounting treatment is prescribed under FRS 36 Impairment of Assets. To gain a better understanding of the characteristics of the goodwill reporting regime, developing an understanding of the level of compliance and quality disclosures related to determining the recoverable amount of the CGUs are matters of prime significance. The sample of this study consists of 192 Singaporean listed companies in the Singapore Stock Exchange (SGX) Mainboard for the first year after their transition to FRS. The results indicate that the rate of compliance with the provisions of FRS 36 and disclosure quality were very poor and failed to reach the expectations of standard setting bodies. The outcomes of this analysis also suggest that there is a high degree of complexity in relation to the conceptualisation, measurement and reporting of goodwill faced by reporting entities in Singaporean Mainboard firms.

Keywords: Goodwill Accounting, Impairment Testing, FRS 36, Disclosure, Singapore

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G11

Suggested Citation:

Khairi, Khairil Faizal, FRS 36: An Analysis of the Compliance Level and Disclosure Quality of Singaporean Listed Firms (June 1, 2008). Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 18-42, June 2008 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1520820
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Yan Sang International Limited, $0.38 million
Crossref
Pacific Healthcare Holdings Limited, $0.25 million, MDR Limited, $2.34 million (Drugs, Cosmetics
Health Care & Chemical)
Datacraft
18 million, Frontline Tech Corporation Limited, $0.04 million, Serial System Limited, $1.35 million (Electrical & Electronic)
Capitaland Limited, $4.41 million, Sincere Watch Limited, $2.62 million (Financial)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,426
RANK
366,348
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies