Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Compliant Transfer Pricing and Responsibility Accounting

46 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2009

Martine Cools

KU Leuven - Faculty of Business and Economics (FEB)

Regine Slagmulder

Vlerick School of Management

Date Written: April 2009

Abstract

While the accounting literature has extensively studied the role of transfer pricing (TP) within the management control system (MCS) of companies, MCS issues related to cross-border transfers have received far less attention. In this case study, we investigate how TP tax compliance influences responsibility accounting when one multinational enterprise (MNE) uses a single set of transfer prices for both tax compliance and management control. First, the MNE eliminated TP negotiation, leading to psychologically disagreeable and sometimes also economically harmful situations. Second, the firm administratively simplified the determination of profit margins to such an extent that it could lead to suboptimal business decisions. Third, tax compliance induced a profit center designation for business units that were primarily responsible for costs or revenues. The firm first coped with a mixed treatment of these responsibility centers, allowing them to be profit centers for tax purposes and cost or revenue centers for MCS purposes. Later, top management became convinced of the benefits of a profit-center treatment for all purposes and started to convert the pro-forma profit centers into real profit centers. Overall, this study contributes to the stream of research documenting and explaining how MCSs are designed and used under environmental pressures.

Keywords: international transfer pricing, management control system, responsibility accounting

JEL Classification: H25, M47

Suggested Citation:

Cools, Martine and Slagmulder, Regine, Tax-Compliant Transfer Pricing and Responsibility Accounting (April 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1520421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1520421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
W Abdallah
International transfer pricing policies. Decision-making guidelines for multinational companies Posted: 1989
R N Anthony , V Govindarajan
Management control systems
McGraw-Hill International Edition , issue 12 Posted: 2006
R Antle , J Demski
The controllability principle in responsibility accounting. The Accounting Review October , p. 700 - 718 Posted: 1988
S Baiman , J Demski
Economically optimal performance evaluation and control systems
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 184 - 220 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
941
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,066
RANK
56,921
6 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies