Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption and Organisational Change - Evidence from Malaysia

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 8-25, December 2008

21 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2009

Nur Hidayah Laili

Macquarie Graduate School of Management

Date Written: December 1, 2008

Abstract

The adoption of IFRS in Malaysia has not changed all aspects of financial accounting and reporting. However, in regards to goodwill, the new accounting treatment represents one of the biggest challenges to Malaysian reporting entities as no such standard existed pre-IFRS adoption. The new standard requires more rigorous techniques and disclosure of goodwill impairment testing and significantly expanded disclosure requirements.

The purpose of this paper is to examine the extent to which organisational responses to the new reporting regime may have changed over time. This is done by analysing the quality and technical accuracy of the goodwill disclosures reported by these organisations together with an assessment of evidence of variation. The sample consists of 249 listed firms listed on Bursa Malaysia that disclosed the existence of goodwill in each of the first two years of Malaysia’s new financial reporting regime. This examination of the response of firms to the new reporting regime provides significant insights for firms, auditors, financial analysts and regulators.

Keywords: Goodwill Accounting, Financial Reporting Standard, FRS 136, Impairment, Organisational Change in Malaysia

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Laili, Nur Hidayah, IFRS Adoption and Organisational Change - Evidence from Malaysia (December 1, 2008). Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 8-25, December 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1520808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
All Aboard The FRS Boat. Accountants Today , p. 20 - 23
Crossref
David Aboody , Ron Kasznik , Michael G. Williams
Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care
Pages: 35 Posted: 26 Nov 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
595
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,067
RANK
104,315
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies