Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share Prices Response to Accounting Fundamentals in Nigerian Stock Market

Posted: 17 Jan 2010

Ahmad Bello

Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, Nigeria; Univerisiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: December 8, 2009

Abstract

Purpose: The study investigates the relationship between market value of publicly traded firms in Nigeria with accounting fundamentals, with the purpose of establishing empirically the relevance of accounting fundamentals in explaining investment behavior in Nigeria.

Design/Methodology/Approach: A multivariate regression model was used to explore the relationship of the variables based on Price model.

Findings: The empirical results obtained show that accounting fundamentals are less informative in predicting market behavior, and investors place more emphasis on the size and commitment of owners in making decision.

Originality/Value: The result could be valuable as it is a signaled to the accounting policy body to consider other alternatives reporting models.

Paper Type: Research Paper.

Keywords: Price, Book Value, Earnings, Dividends, Earnings Changes, Stock market

JEL Classification: G14

Suggested Citation:

Bello, Ahmad, Share Prices Response to Accounting Fundamentals in Nigerian Stock Market (December 8, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1520707
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,188
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies