Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Specific Factors Influencing the Selection of Accounting Options Provided by the IFRS: Empirical Evidence from Spanish Market

Banco de Espana Working Paper No. 0926

38 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2009

Juana Aledo Martinez

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Business Administration

Fernando García-Martínez

Universidad Complutense de Madrid

Juan M. Marín Diazaraque

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Date Written: December 10, 2009

Abstract

It is generally accepted that International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) promote a true and fair presentation of financial statements. The improvement of the quality of financial reporting helps investors, bankers and regulators make better decisions. Spanish GAAP, on the other hand, are based on a prudent approach for asset and liability recognition and valuation, with the goal of protecting stakeholders. Adjustments introduced as a consequence of IFRS adoption may result in (i) the recognition (or derecognition) of assets and liabilities for the first time (i.e. derivative financial assets and liabilities) and (ii) the application of accounting criteria that differs from those recognised under local GAAP (i.e. cost vs. revaluation model).

The main objective of this study is to examine the financial statements of the firms listed on the Spanish Continuous Stock Market that have been using IFRS since 2005 to determine the accounting policy options they apply under IFRS and, most importantly, to provide evidence of the factors driving these choices. Since there are significant differences in reporting quality between countries as a consequence of different accounting regimes and institutional frameworks, mandatory IFRS adoption provides an opportunity to assess the economic consequences of these differences. The main finding of this paper is that companies apply the most conservative criteria to reduce the number of discrepancies between the two standards, particularly in regards to presentation and measurement practices. Nevertheless, the evitación from Spanish GAAP has a significant impact on reported equity and net income. Firms in Consumer services, Consumer goods, Oil and Gas, and Basic Materials, Manufacturing and Construction industries experience the largest adjustments. Additionally, we find that firm-specific factors such as industry, size, auditor’s opinion and capital structure influence the choice of accounting policy used to prepare financial statements. The findings reported in this paper provide a basis for debate about the quality of financial disclosure and reporting regulation and their impact across countries.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, Mandatory Disclosure Level, Fair-value Accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Aledo Martinez, Juana and García-Martínez, Fernando and Marín Diazaraque, Juan M., Firm-Specific Factors Influencing the Selection of Accounting Options Provided by the IFRS: Empirical Evidence from Spanish Market (December 10, 2009). Banco de Espana Working Paper No. 0926, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1521474 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1521474
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
S Aisbitt
Assessing the Effect of the Transition to IFRS on Equity: The Case of the FTSE 100 , volume 3 , p. 117 - 133 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Deloitte Bdo , Ernst &amp; Touche Tohmatsu , Grant Young , Thornton , Pricewaterhousecoopers
GAAP Convergence 2002: A Survey of National Efforts to Promote and Achieve Convergence with International Financial Reporting Standards Posted: 2003
W Beaver
The Information Content of Annual Earnings Announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1968
Crossref
A Belkaoui , A Kahl
Corporate Financial Disclosure in Canada
Canadian Certified General Accountants Association , issue 1 Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
428
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,112
RANK
155,999
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Banco de Espana Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies