Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Discretionary Accruals in the Asian Financial Crisis of 1997-1998

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 30, No. 2, 2011

Posted: 15 Dec 2009 Last revised: 15 May 2011

Jong-Hag Choi

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Date Written: April 5, 2010

Abstract

This study investigates whether and how the information values of reported earnings and their components changed around the Asian financial crisis of 1997-1998. Regression analyses on a sample of 10,406 firm-years from nine Asian countries from 1995 to 2000 reveal the following. First, the crisis led to a significant decline in the value relevance of discretionary accruals but had no significant impact on the value relevance of nondiscretionary earnings components such as operating cash flows and nondiscretionary accruals. Second, the decrease in the value relevance of discretionary accruals during the crisis was more severe for firms in countries with weak institutions than for those in countries with strong institutions. Third, the value relevance of discretionary accruals declined to a greater extent for firms with high information asymmetries than for firms with low information asymmetries. Our results are robust to a variety of sensitivity checks.

Keywords: Asian financial crisis, value relevance, discretionary accruals, nondiscretionary accruals, operating cash flows

JEL Classification: F30, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Jong and Kim, Jeong-Bon and Lee, Jay Junghun, Value Relevance of Discretionary Accruals in the Asian Financial Crisis of 1997-1998 (April 5, 2010). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 30, No. 2, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1521331
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,644
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies