Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Illusion of Comparable European IFRS Financial Statements - The View of Auditors, Analysts and Other Users

31 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2009 Last revised: 15 Mar 2010

Vicky Cole

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Joël Branson

Vrije Universiteit Brussel VUB

Diane Breesch

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Date Written: December 10, 2009

Abstract

The comparability of financial statements is an important research topic in accounting literature. The introduction of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Europe has not eliminated the need for research concerning this topic, on the contrary. Several studies already determined the problem areas within the IFRSs and the factors that influence the comparability of financial statements. There is also extensive literature concerning the definition of comparable financial statements. This study contributes by determining how important these factors and problem areas are according to the auditors, analysts and other users of European IFRS financial statements and what their view is on the comparability of financial statements. Our survey of 426 individuals shows that, when forced to choose, most of them (67%) interpret comparability as uniformity, that is all companies using the same accounting methods. Flexibility, that is all companies can apply an accounting method that is adapted to their unique circumstances, is less preferred. Comparability of financial statements over time and of companies operating within the same industry are considered to be the most important forms of comparability. Accounting methods used, judgements made by preparers and interpretation differences of the applied standards are viewed as the most influential factors for the comparability of financial statements. Only 41% of the respondents believe that the IFRS financial statements are comparable. We defined 13 areas that are viewed as problematic by at least half of the respondents.

JEL Classification: M44, M49

Suggested Citation:

Cole, Vicky and Branson, Joël and Breesch, Diane, The Illusion of Comparable European IFRS Financial Statements - The View of Auditors, Analysts and Other Users (December 10, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1521445 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1521445
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
V Beattie , M J Jones
A Comparative Study of the Use of Financial Graphs in the Corporate Annual Reports of Major U.S. and U.K. Companies
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 8 , p. 33 - 68 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T Beechy
The Illusion of Comparability -MNE Reporting under International Accounting Standards
Seventh International Conference on Multinational Enterprise Posted: 1999-12-14
David Cairns , Dianne Renee Massoudi , Ross Taplin , Ann Tarca
IFRS Fair Value Measurement and Accounting Policy Choice in the United Kingdom and Australia
AAA 2009 Mid-Year International Accounting Section (IAS) Meeting Pages: 30 Posted: 29 Sep 2008 Last revised: 15 Mar 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Vicky Cole , Diane Breesch , Joël Branson
Are Users of Financial Statements of Publicly and Non-Publicly Traded Companies Different or Not? An Empirical Study
Pages: 25 Posted: 16 Jun 2009 Last revised: 29 Sep 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
544
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,338
RANK
117,019
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies