Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discretionary Measurement of Level 3 Fair Values During the 2008 Financial Crisis

51 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2009 Last revised: 26 Aug 2016

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Conrad Meyer

University of Zurich - Institute for Accounting and Control

Date Written: February 1, 2011

Abstract

In the absence of quoted prices in active markets, the measurement of fair values is complex and difficult to verify. Prior literature finds that investors discount fair value estimates based on unobservable inputs (i.e., Level 3). However, these value relevance tests cannot discern whether the discount is attributable to managerial opportunism or illiquidity concerns. This paper examines whether banks use Level 3 fair value estimates to manage earnings during the 2008 Financial Crisis. Based on a sample of 329 U.S. banks, we find that banks with earnings management incentives (i.e., low earnings, negative change in earnings, small negative earnings, and low Tier 1 capital) recognize lower-than-necessary losses on Level 3 positions. Our inferences are robust to alternative specifications including the use of bank fixed effects, placebo tests with Level 3 gains or losses recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI), and benchmarking against discretionary loan loss provisions (LLP).

Keywords: Level 3 fair values, earnings management, Financial Crisis, loan loss provisions (LLP), other comprehensive income (OCI)

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter and Meyer, Conrad, Discretionary Measurement of Level 3 Fair Values During the 2008 Financial Crisis (February 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1522122 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1522122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: A Reexamination of Capital Management, Earnings Management and Signaling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Amiram , W R Landsman , K V Peasnell , C Shakespeare
Market Reaction to Securitization Retained Interest Impairments during the Financial Crisis of Posted: 2007
B Badertscher , J J Burks , P D Easton
A Convenient Scapegoat: Fair Value Accounting by Commercial Banks during the Financial Crisis
The Accounting Review Posted: 2011
Crossref
M E Barth , J Elliott , M Finn
Market Rewards Associated with Patterns of Increasing Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 387 - 413 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,654
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,438
RANK
25,024
5 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies