Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Structure and the Cost of Corporate Borrowing

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2009 Last revised: 23 Feb 2012

Chen Lin

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Yue Ma

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Economics & Finance

Paul H. Malatesta

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Yuhai Xuan

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

Date Written: April 2, 2010

Abstract

This article identifies an important channel through which excess control rights affect firm value. Using a new, hand-collected data set on corporate ownership and control of 3,468 firms in 22 countries during the 1996–2008 period, we find that the cost of debt financing is significantly higher for companies with a wider divergence between the largest ultimate owner’s control rights and cash-flow rights and investigate factors that affect this relation. Our results suggest that potential tunneling and other moral hazard activities by large shareholders are facilitated by their excess control rights. These activities increase the monitoring costs and the credit risk faced by banks and, in turn, raise the cost of debt for the borrower.

Keywords: Ownership structure, Excess control rights, Control-ownership wedge, Cost of debt, Bank loans

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Chen and Ma, Yue and Malatesta, Paul H. and Xuan, Yuhai, Ownership Structure and the Cost of Corporate Borrowing (April 2, 2010). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1522726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1522726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,047
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,770
RANK
49,118
89 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies