Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financing Effect: Will a Tax Transparent Form for Closely Held Businesses in Australia Assist with Financing?

Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 121-154, 2009

34 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2009

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: December 13, 2009

Abstract

One of the potential reforms to be considered by the Henry Review is a proposal by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Australia and Deloitte for the introduction of a tax transparent company (the ICAA proposal). The central proposition of the ICAA proposal is that the introduction of a tax transparent company will be beneficial to closely held businesses in Australia.

An issue facing closely held businesses can be in terms of financing, and this article will consider whether the introduction of a tax transparent company is likely to assist closely held businesses with this. This analysis will consider the model outlined in the ICAA proposal, as well as a number of foreign transparent company forms, particularly: United States’ S Corporations and limited liability companies (LLC), the United Kingdom’s limited liability partnership (LLP) and New Zealand’s Loss Attribution Qualifying Company (LAQC).

Through this analysis, a number of areas of concern will be raised about the interaction of a tax transparent company with financing, particularly in terms of eligibility requirements, assessment for unpaid allocations, comparison to corporate tax treatment and active members. It will be argued that as currently structured the ICAA proposal is unlikely to substantially assist closely held businesses address their financing problems and that a partial loss transparent company would be preferable model in this regard.

Keywords: Australia, ICCA, LLC, S Corporation, LAQC, tax, transparent, entity flow through

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett, The Financing Effect: Will a Tax Transparent Form for Closely Held Businesses in Australia Assist with Financing? (December 13, 2009). Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 121-154, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1523004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
IRC 1986 (US), s 1402(a): provides that self-employment income includes the distributive
This has resulted in planning strategies, including the imposition of an additional LLC between the active member and the LLC conducting the business. The efficacy of these strategies is by no means certain as they have not been subjected to judicial scrutiny. IRC 1986 (US), s 1402(a)(13). Howard Friedman, 'The Silent LLC Revolution -The Social Cost of Academic Neglect
Creighton Law Review , volume 38 , issue 1 Posted: 2004
It was reported that a prior Vice Presidential candidate John Edwards (running partner with Al Gore) appreciated the difference between allocations and wages, prompting him to use an S Corporation rather than an entity subject to Sub-Chapter K for the conduct of his law business to minimise self employment taxes Posted: 2007-03
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Actions are Needed to Eliminate Inequities in the Employment Tax Liabilities of Sole Proprietorships and Single-Shareholder S Corporations Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
RANK
849,077
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies