Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax: Deductibility of Home Office Expenses

Recent Law, p. 277, 1978

3 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2009 Last revised: 1 Feb 2010

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: Febuary 1, 2010

Abstract

CIR v. Banks (1978) 2 NZLR 472 considered the issue of deductibility of home office expenses. Richardson J rejected the Australian approach, which holds that if the initial capital outlay was made for private purposes, the fact that the property is later used for income-producing is immaterial. He held that the nature and use of the property in the income year must be considered to determine whether there is the necessary relationship between the expenditure and the income related activities.

Keywords: Income Tax, Deductibility, Depreciation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, Income Tax: Deductibility of Home Office Expenses (Febuary 1, 2010). Recent Law, p. 277, 1978, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1524055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,846
RANK
618,773
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies