Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Alternative IRPEF Reforms Using Microsimulation Methods

Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009

Posted: 19 Dec 2009

Carlo V. Fiorio

University of Milan - Department of Economics, Management and Quantitative Methods (DEMM)

Date Written: April 1, 2009

Abstract

In this paper alternative reforms of present Italian personal income taxation, including a change of the tax unit and the introduction of a flat tax, are studied using a microsimulation model built on a representative sample of the Italian household population. The comparison is performed discussing efficiency and equity of each alternative. Results suggest that main critical points of a family-unit reform include a high effective marginal tax rate for taxpayers with highly elastic labour supply, namely low-income married women. Flat taxation systems would cause no efficiency improvements and a dramatic reduction of tax progressivity and a worsening of redistribution. The analysis of losers and gainers clearly highlights that the distribution of gains with family-unit and flat tax systems would be highly in favour of families in the top quintile of incomes. Among the simulations developed, an adjustment of current Irpef, roughly along the lines suggested on the White Paper on Irpef and family income support, would not worsen inefficiency of current personal income taxation and produce more equal distribution of disposable income.

Keywords: tax-benefit microsimulation model, personal income tax reforms, equity, efficiency, losers and gainers

JEL Classification: H24, D31

Suggested Citation:

Fiorio, Carlo V., Assessing Alternative IRPEF Reforms Using Microsimulation Methods (April 1, 2009). Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1525496
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
888
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies