Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Personal Income Tax Theory, Equity and Incentives: Some Comments and Extensions

Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009

Posted: 18 Dec 2009

Alessandro Petretto

University of Florence - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: April 1, 2009

Abstract

The paper provides a critical review of the three essays originally presented at the 49th Annual Conference of the SIE by U. Colombino, C. De Vincenti and R. Paladini, and E. Longobardi. The aim of this comment-essay is to further enlarge their theoretical perspective and their policy implications. The paper does some general considerations on the entire block of the three essays and emphasizes some specific remarks on each of them. Despite it can not reach, of course, any conclusive results, it singles out some meaningful lines for future research, also as far as the institutional Italian context is concerned.

Keywords: Optimal personal income tax, benefits and family allowances, equity and efficiency of taxation

JEL Classification: H21, H24

Suggested Citation:

Petretto, Alessandro, Personal Income Tax Theory, Equity and Incentives: Some Comments and Extensions (April 1, 2009). Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1525503
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies