Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Income Tax Redistributive Impact: A More Comprehensive Approach

Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009

Posted: 18 Dec 2009

Carlo Declich

ISAE, Istituto di Studi e Analisi Economica

Felice Russo

Universita di Lecce - Departmento of Scienze Economiche e Matematico-Statistiche

Date Written: April 1, 2009

Abstract

In order to investigate the redistributional effects induced by personal income tax, empirical researchers are used to fixing a common distribution of income before tax for all tax schedules being compared. On one hand, this approach allows us to isolate the effect of tax policies. On the other hand, if the goal is to assess the real impact rather than the potential inequality outcomes of various tax regimes, it is well known that the income tax redistributive effect is mainly determined by both the pre-tax income distribution and the tax schedule operating on this distribution.

In order to analyse tax reforms which will act on unknown pre-tax income distributions, this paper presents a simple procedure useful for practitioners wishing to take into account pre-tax distributional differences before undertaking comparisons between tax schedules. This new procedure is illustrated for a more accurate evaluation of the PIT reforms recently implemented in Italy. Finally, the outcomes of traditional analyses and our approach are compared.

Keywords: personal income taxation, redistribution, welfare

JEL Classification: H23, H24, D63

Suggested Citation:

Declich, Carlo and Russo, Felice, Evaluating the Income Tax Redistributive Impact: A More Comprehensive Approach (April 1, 2009). Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1525490
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies