Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Income Taxation: Recent Empirical Applications

Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009

Posted: 19 Dec 2009

Ugo Colombino

University of Turin - Department of Economics

Date Written: April 2009

Abstract

In this paper we present a critical survey of two “generations” of studies addressing the empirical computation of optimal income taxes. The first generation, from 1971 up to the late ‘90s, mainly consists of illustrative numerical exercises rather than of empirical applications. The optimal tax-transfer regime that most commonly emerges from these efforts is a negative income tax a (almost) flat tax. The second generation is characterized by a more definite focus on policy implementations and, relying on extensions or reformulations of Mirrlees’s model, attempts to establish a closer connection between theory and data or econometric estimates. We argue that both generations of studies suffer from taking for granted that the solution to the optimal taxation problem must be an analytical one (a “formula”), to be fed with numerical guesses or estimates. As a first consequence, the theoretical models must adopt very restrictive assumptions in order to generate analytical solutions. As a second consequence, the theoretical results are potentially inconsistent with the empirical estimates that are typically generated under very different (much less restrictive) assumptions. A different approach would consist in avoiding restrictive theoretical assumptions and obtaining the solution computationally by iteratively simulating a microeconometric model. This approach is exemplified here with the computation of optima taxes in Norway and with the evaluation of alternative basic income mechanisms in some European countries.

Suggested Citation:

Colombino, Ugo, Optimal Income Taxation: Recent Empirical Applications (April 2009). Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1525486
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,112
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies