Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Trends in Personal Income Tax: Some Aspects of Vertical and Horizontal Equity

Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009

Posted: 19 Dec 2009

Ernesto Longobardi

Università degli Studi di Bari “Aldo Moro” (UNIBA)

Date Written: April 1, 2009

Abstract

Moving from the observation of the two most important innovations in personal income tax experiences at the international level, the introduction of flat taxes or the flattening of existing taxes, and the introduction of dual income taxes or a movement towards duality, the paper considers the equity implications of such changes. It first compares a graduate rate tax with a flat one in terms of both vertical and horizontal equity. After a review of the existing literature, a simulation is presented on the effects of replacing the Italian personal income tax (Irpef) with a flat tax with the same revenue. It is shown that a flat tax with a 33% rate would produce a redistributive impact very close to that of Irpef, while being horizontally equitable in an equivalence scale framework. It is shown that the result of a better performance of a flat tax than a graduate rate tax in a horizontal equity perspective and within the class of constant relative scales is not sensitive to the choice of scale. In many respects the dual income tax can also represent an improvement on equity grounds if compared with the traditional personal income tax.

Keywords: personal income tax, flat tax, horizontal equity, equivalence scales

JEL Classification: H24

Suggested Citation:

Longobardi, Ernesto, International Trends in Personal Income Tax: Some Aspects of Vertical and Horizontal Equity (April 1, 2009). Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1525500
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
962
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies