Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Personal Income Tax Design for Italy: Lessons from the Theory

Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009

Posted: 19 Dec 2009

Claudio de Vincenti

Sapienza University of Rome - Department of Public Economics

Ruggero Paladini

Università La Sapienza - Istituto di Economia e Finanza

Date Written: April 1, 2009

Abstract

IRPEF – the Italian personal income tax – is the leading tax in terms of share of total government revenue in Italy. After a decade of reforms, the tax-benefit structure still exhibits several critical issues that need to be addressed. The paper presents a tax-benefit design proposal for Italy based on the more recent achievements of the theory. Firstly, it provides a brief overview of optimal taxation theory as it relates to personal income tax, particularly the latest critical developments which argue in favour of a schedule of increasing marginal rates. Secondly, the literature on optimal taxation is used to analyse, from the point of view of efficiency, the different possible ways of implementing transfers to low-income earners. Then the issue of the choice of tax unit is examined in terms of its efficiency as well as its (horizontal and vertical) equity implications. Lastly, the paper presents a proposal for a package of reforms concerning the structure of personal income tax and family benefits aimed at addressing the critical issues affecting the current system.

Keywords: marginal tax rates, negative income tax, tax unit, tax-benefit design

JEL Classification: H2, H21, H24, H31

Suggested Citation:

de Vincenti, Claudio and Paladini, Ruggero, Personal Income Tax Design for Italy: Lessons from the Theory (April 1, 2009). Rivista Italiana degli Economisti, Vol. 1, April 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1525487
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,184
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies