Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Carbon: Capital Market Effects of the Proposed Emission Trading Scheme (ETS)

Abacus, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2009 Last revised: 24 Mar 2011

Larelle Law Chapple

QUT School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Peter Clarkson

University of Queensland - Business School; Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Daniel Gold

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 14, 2011

Abstract

The Australian Government has announced its intention to introduce a national Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), now expected in 2011. This study, the first empirical study into pricing effects, investigates the impact of ETS on the market valuation of Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) firms. We hypothesise that firm value will be negatively related to its carbon intensity profile. Using a sample of 58 listed firms during 2007, based on event study methodology, we initially find that the market indeed prices the proposed ETS. Second, using a modified Ohlson (1995) valuation model, we find a market decrement for high intensity firms, relative to other sample firms, of between 7% and 10% of market capitalisation.

Keywords: emissions trading scheme, ETS, cost of carbon, environmental liabilities, market valuation

JEL Classification: G14, G18, K32, O16, Q51

Suggested Citation:

Law Chapple, Larelle and Clarkson, Peter and Gold, Daniel, The Cost of Carbon: Capital Market Effects of the Proposed Emission Trading Scheme (ETS) (February 14, 2011). Abacus, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1526895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
S Al-Tuwaijri , T Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , Greg Clinch
Scale Effects in Capital Markets-Based Accounting Research
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming Pages: 65 Posted: 31 Jan 2000 Last revised: 13 Jan 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Barth , M Mcnichols
Estimation and Market Valuation of Environmental Liabilities Relating to Superfund Sites
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , p. 177 - 209 Posted: 1994
Crossref
D Besanko , J Souza , S R Thiagarajan
The effect of wholesale market deregulation on shareholder wealth in the electric power industry , p. 65 - 88 Posted: 2001-04
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Pietro Bonetti , Charles H. Cho , Giovanna Michelon
Environmental Disclosure and the Cost of Capital: Evidence from the Fukushima Nuclear Disaster
European Accounting Review (forthcoming) · 77 Pages · Posted: 2 Jan 2014 · Last revised: 24 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 895
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Pradip Banerjee , Sudipta Bose , Sandip Dhole , Cameron Truong
Greening Up Their Act: Corporate Carbon Emissions Reduction in Response to Political Risk
YBARE-D-24-00131 · 70 Pages · Posted: 15 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 8
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
797
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,606
RANK
71,407
2 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Revisiting the Relation between Environmental Performance and Environmental Disclosure: An Empirical Analysis

By Yue Li, Peter Clarkson, ...

Revisiting the Relation between Environmental Performance and Environmental Disclosure: An Empirical Analysis

By Yue Li, Peter Clarkson, ...

The Relations Among Environmental Disclosure, Environmental Performance, and Economic Performance: A Simultaneous Equations Approach

By Sulaiman Al-tuwaijri, Theodore E. Christensen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies