Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conditional Conservatism, Debt Markets and Financial Structure: Further Evidence from the United Kingdom

25 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2009

Jan Hendrik Hammermeister

University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Joerg R. Werner

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management - Accounting Department

Date Written: December 24, 2009

Abstract

Conditional conservatism has caused a controversy in recent literature in regards to whether it is rather driven by reporting demands originating from debt or equity markets. Extending the work of Ball/Shivakumar (2005), who found public companies to report conditionally more conservative than private ones, our paper additionally differentiates between three subsamples of public firms (equity and/or bonds listed) and, moreover, also between different financial structures. Comparing the magnitude of conditional conservatism across the different subsamples indicates that the demands for conditional conservatism seem to be similar in all public markets implying that a demand for conditional conservatism emanates to the same extent in bond markets even when no equity is listed. Moreover, we show that the extent of conditional conservatism increases (decreases) when firms with only listed equity display comparatively higher (lower) debt (equity) ratios. We interpret these findings as strong demands for conservatism originating from public and private debt markets, but, to some degree, also from equity markets. Surprisingly, we also find that private firms with higher (lower) equity (debt) ratios report more conservative than those with lower equity ratios pointing to structurally different reporting demands emanating from public and private markets. Our findings contribute to the discussion which reporting demands drive conservatism.

Keywords: Accounting Conservatism, Legal Systems, Financial Markets, Financial Structure, Bond Markets

JEL Classification: G18, G30, G32, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hammermeister, Jan Hendrik and Werner, Jörg Richard, Conditional Conservatism, Debt Markets and Financial Structure: Further Evidence from the United Kingdom (December 24, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1527768 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1527768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-Shareholder Conflicts over Dividend Policy and in Reducing Debt Costs
Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an Economically Efficient System of Public Financial Reporting and Disclosure
BrookingsWharton Papers on Financial Services Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,257
RANK
282,998
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies