Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Financing and Accounting Conservatism in Private Firms

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 31, No. 4, 2014, pp. 1220-1259

Posted: 7 Jan 2010 Last revised: 2 Dec 2014

In-Mu Haw

Texas Christian University - M.J. Neeley School of Business

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Woo-Jong Lee

Seoul National University

Date Written: June 29, 2013

Abstract

This study investigates the role of public debt financing in shaping accounting conservatism in privately held companies. We focus on the change in conservatism of private firms following initial issuance of public debt and examine the effects of agency conflicts between bondholders and shareholders on the change in conservatism. Regression analyses on a large sample of public bond issues by Korean private firms reveal the following. First, private firms with public debt exhibit a higher degree of conservatism than those with exclusively private debt. The incremental effect of public debt on the level of conservatism is virtually equivalent in magnitude to that of public equity. Second, and more importantly, private firms that issue public debt for the first time show a significant increase in conservatism, whereas corresponding public firms do not. Third, private firms with high agency costs of public debt (characterized by high information asymmetry and high credit risk) undergo a greater increase in conservatism following their initial bond issues than those with low agency costs. Further analysis shows that private firms sustain increased levels of conservatism even beyond the time period of average maturity of initial bonds, and that bond investors reward this long-term commitment to conservative accounting by gradually reducing interest rates for seasoned bond issuers. The findings of this study shed light on how information demand arising from public debt issuance, especially by private firms with high ex ante agency costs, engenders conservative financial reporting in emerging markets.

Keywords: private firms, debt financing, public bonds, accounting conservatism

JEL Classification: M41, G32, N25

Suggested Citation:

Haw, In-Mu and Lee, Jay Junghun and Lee, Woo-Jong, Debt Financing and Accounting Conservatism in Private Firms (June 29, 2013). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 31, No. 4, 2014, pp. 1220-1259, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1527052 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1527052
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,983
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies