Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why do Foreign Firms Leave U.S. Equity Markets?

Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2009-03-003

Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2009-3

58 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2009

Craig Doidge

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

George Andrew Karolyi

Cornell University - SC Johnson College of Business; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

René M. Stulz

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 9, 2010

Abstract

Foreign firms terminate their SEC registration in the aftermath of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) because they no longer require outside funds to finance growth opportunities. Deregistering firms' insiders benefit from greater discretion to consume private benefits without having to raise higher cost funds. Foreign firms with more agency problems have worse stock-price reactions to the adoption of Rule 12h-6 in 2007, which made deregistration easier, than those firms more adversely affected by the compliance costs of SOX. Stock-price reactions to deregistration announcements are negative, but less so under Rule 12h-6, and more so for firms that raise fewer funds externally.

Keywords: corporate governance, SOX, deregistration, Exchange Act Rule, bonding theory, loss of competitiveness theory

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G32, G34, G38, F30

Suggested Citation:

Doidge, Craig and Karolyi, George Andrew and Stulz, Rene M., Why do Foreign Firms Leave U.S. Equity Markets? (January 9, 2010). Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2009-03-003, Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2009-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1527190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Cross-listing premium Panel B: Evolution of the Cross-listing Premium
Karolyi Doidge , Stulz
Stulz (1999) are the first to argue that a U.S. listing enhances the protection of the firm"s investors and, consequently, reduces the agency costs of controlling shareholders. See, among others
Hail and Leuz Posted: 1999
See Leuz
Posted: 2007
Zingales
Additional arguments in support of this view can be found in reports of the Committee for Capital Market Regulation Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,638
RANK
66,914
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies