Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost of Capital When Dividends are Deductible (Costo de Capital con Dividendos Deducibles) (Spanish)

20 Pages Posted: 24 Dec 2009 Last revised: 26 Dec 2009

Ignacio Velez-Pareja

Grupo Consultor CAV Capital Advisory & Valuation

Julián Benavides Franco

Universidad ICESI - Finance; Universidad ICESI - Economics & Management

Date Written: December 24, 2009

Abstract

When calculating Tax Savings, TS we are confronted with a strange mix of accounting accrual and market value when involving TS in the calculation of the Weighted Average Cost of Capital, WACC or the Cost of Equity, Ke. Firms earn the right to TS once they accrue the interest expense and they actually earn the TS when taxes are paid.

Tax savings and the discount rate we use to calculate their value are involved in the calculation of WACC and Ke. Textbook WACC formulation is a very special and unique case that is not typical. Based on previous findings, we derive a general approach to those formulas that take into account any kind of TS related to the financing decision of a firm and any date when the TS is earned. These formulations can be used to introduce any type of externality that creates value through tax savings not captured by neither the cost of debt nor the cost of equity.

In this paper we develop the formulations for Ke, the cost of levered equity and the average cost of capital when dividends, interest on equity or monetary correction of equity are deductible. This is the case of Brazil.

We show that using the proper formulation the most known valuation methods, i) Firm value with Free Cash Flow and WACC for the FCF; ii) value with the Capital Cash Flow and WACC for the FCC; iii) equity value with the Cash Flow to Equity and Ke, the levered cost of equity plus debt; iv) Adjusted Present Value, APV are consistent and give identical results.

Note: Downloadable document is in Spanish.

Keywords: WACC, interest on equity, tax savings, tax shields, cost of equity, deducible dividends, deducible interest on equity, discount rate for tax savings

JEL Classification: D61, G31, H43

Suggested Citation:

Velez-Pareja, Ignacio and Benavides Franco, Julián, Cost of Capital When Dividends are Deductible (Costo de Capital con Dividendos Deducibles) (Spanish) (December 24, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1527857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1527857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,943
RANK
265,571
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Return to Basics: Are You Properly Calculating Tax Shields?

By Ignacio Velez-pareja

Cost of Capital When Dividends are Deductible

By Ignacio Velez-pareja and Julián Benavides Franco

Constructing Consistent Financial Planning Models for Valuation

By Ignacio Velez-pareja

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies