Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Sarbanes Oxley on Cross Listing: A Discussion of Piotroski and Srinivasan (2008)

11 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2009

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Date Written: January 1, 2008

Abstract

I discuss the analysis in Piotroski and Srinivasan (2008) and how it helps to disentangle the effects of Sarbanes Oxley on observed listing patterns. Since the paper is quite thorough and reflects the comments from many workshop participants, I focus on broader issues. Further, I attempt to incorporate the gist of comments from the Journal of Accounting Research conference participants. I conclude that, while the paper provides important descriptive evidence, inherent design and measurement hurdles limit one’s ability to draw strong causal inferences about the effects of SOX on cross listing decisions.

Keywords: cross-listing, Sarbanes Oxley, SOX

JEL Classification: F3, G15, G38, M41, M43, M47

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Mark H., The Effect of Sarbanes Oxley on Cross Listing: A Discussion of Piotroski and Srinivasan (2008) (January 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1528773 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1528773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
S J Arcot , G Black , Owen
From Local to Global. The Rise of Aim as a Stock Market for Growing Companies Posted: 2007
C Doidge , G Karolyi , R Stulz
Has New York Become Less Competitive in Global Markets? Evaluating Foreign Listing Choices Over Time Posted: 2007
Crossref
Peter Hostak , Nuri Karaoglu , Thomas Z. Lys , Yong George Yang
An Examination of the Impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on the Attractiveness of US Capital Markets for Foreign Firms
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming Pages: 43 Posted: 9 Jan 2007 Last revised: 8 May 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sarbanes-Oxley
Act on the Attractiveness of US Capital Markets for Foreign Firms
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,005
RANK
390,908
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies