Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Principles-Based Versus Rules-Based Standards and Earnings Management

42 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2009

Richard Mergenthaler

Penn State University

Date Written: December 26, 2009

Abstract

Using a sample of accounting irregularities, this study investigates whether rules-based characteristics are associated with the dollar magnitude of earnings management, with the probability of being penalized by the SEC when earnings management is detected, and with the assessed penalty. To address these questions, I develop an instrument that measures the extent to which a standard contains rules-based characteristics. I find rules-based characteristics are positively associated with the dollar magnitude of earnings management. I also find a negative association between rules-based characteristics and the probability of being penalized by the SEC via enforcement actions. These results suggest the magnitude of earnings management is greater when a rules-based standard is violated and the likelihood of being penalized by the SEC is lower for detected rules-based violations.

JEL Classification: M43, G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mergenthaler, Richard Dean, Principles-Based Versus Rules-Based Standards and Earnings Management (December 26, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1528524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1528524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
E Bartov , P Fairfield , E Hirst , T E Iannaconi , L Maines , R Mallett , C M Schrand , D Skinner , L Vincent
Evaluating concepts-based vs. rules-based approaches to standard setting
Accounting Horizons , volume 17 , p. 73 - 89 Posted: 2003
Anne L. Beatty
How Does Changing Measurement Change Management Behavior? A Review of the Evidence
Pages: 26 Posted: 26 Mar 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
Crossref
S E Bonner , B L Lewis
A model of the effects of audit task complexity
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 19 , p. 213 - 244 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,902
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,671
RANK
20,192
21 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Restating Under the Radar? Determinants of Restatement Disclosure Choices and the Related Market Reactions

By Linda A. Myers, Susan Scholz, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies