Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Costs in Industrial Pricing

27 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2010

Kenneth, Fjell

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Marita Bjørke

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Renate Kvitne

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Gorm Grønnevet

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: December 25, 2009

Abstract

Based on a large survey of firms in Norwegian industry, in line with earlier studies, we find that the majority (68.7%) use some form of cost based pricing. In contrast to earlier studies, variable cost is the dominant cost base (32%). Only about 20% of firms use fully distributed cost compared to 30-41% reported in previous studies. Also, the share of firms practicing strict cost based pricing with little or no regard to market factors is marginal and considerable lower than found earlier. We find that costs play a larger role for small and medium sized firms, and for firms which emphasize fairness in pricing. In contrast, firms’ emphasis on the competitive situation and customer value are both negatively related with the role of costs.

Keywords: pricing methods, industry

JEL Classification: M46, M47, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fjell, Kenneth, and Bjørke, Marita and Kvitne, Renate and Gronnevet, Gorm Andreas, The Role of Costs in Industrial Pricing (December 25, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1531582 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1531582
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
G C Arnold , P D Hatzopoulos
The Theory-Practice Gap in Capital Budgeting: Evidence from the United Kingdom
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , p. 603 - 626 Posted: 2000-06
Crossref
B Atkin , R Skinner
How British industry prices Posted: 1975
T Bjørnenak
Conventional wisdom and costing practices
Management Accounting Research , volume 8 , p. 367 - 382 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T Bjørnenak
Diffusion and accounting: the case of ABC in Norway
Management Accounting Research , volume 8 , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,759
RANK
298,603
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies