Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Planning by Transnational Corporations: An Overview

18 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2010

Abha Tiwari

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 5, 2010

Abstract

Globalization tends to open new era of transnational Corporation, where the determination of tax bases has become very technical. Tax can either be imposed on the basis of incorporation of accompany or on the basis of the income that can be attributed to a particular territory. The three main areas of conflict in determining the tax bases of Transnational Corporations are 1) allocation of profits between associated enterprises, 2) trade between associated enterprises and 3) determination of permanent establishment of transnational corporations. But all these systems are with some loopholes which ultimately leads to tax evasion. Tax planning is a legitimate device used by the companies to save tax but this device should not be used with the intention to evade tax.

Keywords: Tax Evasion, Legitimate Tax Planning, Transfer Pricing, Residence Test, Source Test, Tax Mitigation

Suggested Citation:

Tiwari, Abha, International Tax Planning by Transnational Corporations: An Overview (January 5, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1531522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1531522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
585
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,088
RANK
106,656
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies