Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in the UK: Is the Comply or Explain Approach Working?

International Review of Law and Economics, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2010 Last revised: 10 Jan 2010

Sridhar Arcot

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business; ESSEC Business School - Finance Department

Valentina Bruno

American University - Department of Finance and Real Estate; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Antoine Faure-Grimaud

London School of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: July 1, 2009

Abstract

We examine the effectiveness of the "Comply or Explain" approach to corporate governance in the UK. Using a unique database of 245 non-financial companies for the period 1998-2004, we find an increasing trend of compliance with the Combined Code, but a frequent use of standard explanations in case of non-compliance. We show how the Combined Code has been interpreted and applied, and we discuss the existence of enforcement and monitoring problems. We make recommendations so that the approach could be strengthened with greatest possible benefits.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Comply or Explain, Combined Code

JEL Classification: K22, G34

Suggested Citation:

Arcot, Sridhar and Bruno, Valentina Giulia and Faure-Grimaud, Antoine, Corporate Governance in the UK: Is the Comply or Explain Approach Working? (July 1, 2009). International Review of Law and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1532290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
P Ali , P A U Ali , G N Gregoriou
International Corporate Governance After Sarbanes-Oxley Posted: 2006
Crossref
Sridhar Arcot , Valentina Giulia Bruno
In Letter But Not in Spirit: An Analysis of Corporate Governance in the UK
Pages: 73 Posted: 13 Oct 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S R Arcot , V G Bruno
Silence is not Golden: Corporate Governance Standards, Transparency, and Performance, working paper, Financial Markets Group Posted: 2009
Crossref
S M Bainbridge
Director Primacy: The Means and Ends of Corporate Governance , volume 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,332
RANK
12,569
5 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies