Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Composition, Grey Directors and Corporate Failure in the UK

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2010 Last revised: 6 Aug 2014

Hwa-Hsien Hsu

Durham University Business School

Chloe Yu-Hsuan Wu

Leeds University Business School; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2013

Abstract

This study examines the effect of board composition on the likelihood of corporate failure in the UK. We consider both independent and non-independent (grey) non-executive directors (NEDs) to enhance our understanding of the impact of NEDs’ personal or economic ties with the firm and its management on firm performance.We find that firms with a larger proportion of grey directors on their boards are less likely to fail. Furthermore, the probability of corporate failure is lower both when firms have a higher proportion of grey directors relative to executive directors and when they have a higher proportion of grey directors relative to independent directors. Conversely, there is a positive relationship between the likelihood of corporate failure and the proportion of independent directors on corporate boards. The findings discussed in this study support the collaborative board model and the view that corporate governance reform efforts may have over emphasised the monitoring function of independent directors and underestimated the benefits of NEDs’ affiliations with the firm and its management.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Composition, Grey Director, Corporate Failure

JEL Classification: G30, G33, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Hwa-Hsien and Wu, Chloe Yu-Hsuan, Board Composition, Grey Directors and Corporate Failure in the UK (December 1, 2013). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1532997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1532997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Renée B. Adams
Asking Directors About Their Dual Roles
Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2010 Paper Pages: 51 Posted: 18 Mar 2009 Last revised: 13 Nov 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
930
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,018
RANK
57,850
9 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies