Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Adoption of More Stringent Governance Policy on Audit Committees: Theory and Empirical Evidence

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2010 Last revised: 19 Jun 2013

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Yue Li

University of Toronto - Joseph Rotman School of Management

Date Written: April 16, 2013

Abstract

This study exploits an exogenous change to audit committee policy in Canada and presents new evidence on how high-quality corporate governance mitigates managerial resource diversion and improves firm values. We first examine why some Toronto Venture Exchange (TSX Venture)-listed firms voluntarily adopted the more stringent governance policy in 2004 that requires all audit committee members to be independent and financially literate. We develop a parsimonious analytical model that shows that both compliance costs and financing needs have an impact on firms’ adoption decisions. Confirming the model’s predictions, we find that TSX Venture firms with low compliance costs and greater future financing needs are more likely to adopt the new policy voluntarily. The analytical model also shows that high-quality audit committees enhance firm values by reducing the likelihood of managerial resource diversion. Consistent with the predictions of our analytical model, we find that the adoption decision has a positive impact on firm value and a negative impact on firms’ cost of equity capital for both Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) and TSX Venture firms. As corroborating evidence of the economic impact of the more stringent governance policy, we also show that both TSX and TSX Venture firms have improved investment efficiency following the adoption decisions.

Keywords: Audit committees, voluntary compliance, compliance costs, Tobin’s Q, investment efficiency

JEL Classification: M41, G38, G30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Li, Yue, Voluntary Adoption of More Stringent Governance Policy on Audit Committees: Theory and Empirical Evidence (April 16, 2013). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1533540 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1533540
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Corporate governance, audit quality, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Evidence from internal audit outsourcing
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An empirical investigation of audit fees, non-audit fees and audit committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R M Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between U.S. and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 3171 - 3209 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Mohammed A. Alhossini , Collins G. Ntim , Alaa Zalata
Corporate Board Committees and Corporate Outcomes: An International Systematic Literature Review and Agenda for Future Research
International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 91 Pages · Posted: 24 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 518
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Géraldine Broye , Pauline Johannes
Determinants of Audit Committee Effectiveness: Reviewing a Decade of Empirical Research
Forthcoming Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, · 52 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 388
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,929
RANK
362,814
2 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies