Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uninvited U.S. Investors? Economic Consequences of Involuntary Cross-Listings

59 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2010 Last revised: 16 Nov 2013

Peter Iliev

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Finance

Darius P. Miller

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Finance Department

Lukas Roth

University of Alberta - Department of Finance and Statistical Analysis; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 25, 2013

Abstract

We study the economic consequences of a recent SEC securities regulation change that grants foreign firms trading on the U.S. OTC market an automatic exemption from the reporting requirements of the 1934 Securities Act. We document that the number of voluntary (sponsored) OTC cross-listings did not increase following the regulation change, suggesting that it did not achieve its intended purpose of increasing voluntary OTC cross-listings through a reduction in compliance costs. We do find that the design of the regulation allowed financial intermediaries to create an unprecedented number of involuntary (unsponsored) OTC ADRs: 1,700 unsponsored ADR programs for 920 firms were created for companies that had previously chosen not to cross-list in the United States. Our difference-in-differences analysis based on a matched sample approach documents that foreign firms forced into the U.S. capital markets experience a significant decrease in firm value, and we further show that the decrease in firm value is related to an increase in U.S. litigation risk. We also find that depositary banks’ propensity to involuntarily cross-list firms is positively related to banks’ expected fee revenue, and that banks chose firms that incur high costs when involuntarily cross-listed. Our results provide evidence that securities regulation can be exploited for private gain and result in costly unintended consequences.

Keywords: Cross-listing, Securities Regulation, SEC, Rule 12g3-2(b)

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G38, K22, F30

Suggested Citation:

Iliev, Peter and Miller, Darius P. and Roth, Lukas, Uninvited U.S. Investors? Economic Consequences of Involuntary Cross-Listings (October 25, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1533603 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1533603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Number of Firms Panel B: Number of ADR Programs Panel C: Proportion of Firms with Sponsored and Unsponsored ADRs before and after the amendment of
Crossref
Proportion of Sponsored and Unsponsored ADR Programs before and after the amendment of Rule 12b3-2(b)
Crossref
Load more
8 Citations
John Matthew Ammer , Sara B. Holland , David Carl Smith , Francis E. Warnock
U.S. International Equity Investment
FRB International Finance Discussion Paper No. 1044, Darden Business School Working Paper No. 2033181 · 70 Pages · Posted: 4 Apr 2012 · Downloads: 88
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yoon Koh , Seoki Lee , Sudipta Basu , Wesley S. Roehl
Determinants of involuntary cross-listing: US restaurant companies' perspective
International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management , volume 25 , issue 7 , p. 1066 Posted: 2013
Crossref
JOHN AMMER , SARA B. HOLLAND , DAVID C. SMITH , FRANCIS E. WARNOCK
U.S. International Equity Investment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1109 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Paul Demere , Jeffrey Gramlich
The Value of International Income Shifting to U.S. Multinational Firms
51 Pages · Posted: 22 Aug 2016 · Last revised: 3 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 433
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,244
RANK
134,863
8 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies