Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Pride: Why do Firms from Developing Countries Bid Higher?

Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2010

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Dushyantkumar Vyas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 8, 2010

Abstract

Using an extensive panel of cross-border M&A transactions between 1990 and 2007, we find that firms from developing countries (versus those from developed countries) bid higher on average to acquire assets in developed countries. We are interested in why these higher bids occur. We find that bids of firms from developing countries are higher in cases where the transaction displays “national pride” characteristics, where national pride is identified through a manual examination of media articles. These results, which are robust to numerous specifications (including alternative measures of national pride) and control variables, are both statistically and economically significant and highlight a source of pride beyond personal hubris which potentially influences corporate decision makers.

Keywords: Mergers & Acquisitions, bid premium, national pride, emerging markets

JEL Classification: G12, G15, G24, G34, G32, O16, F23

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Thomas, Wayne B. and Vyas, Dushyantkumar, The Cost of Pride: Why do Firms from Developing Countries Bid Higher? (January 8, 2010). Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1533381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
R Alesina , R Perotti
Income distribution, political instability, and investment
European Economic Review , volume 40 , issue 6 , p. 1203 - 1228 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives vs. standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
K C Barrett
A functionalist approach to guilt and shame
Self-Conscious Emotions: The Psychology of Shame, Guilt, Embarrassment, and Pride Posted: 1995
L Bebchuk , Y Grinstein
Firm expansion and CEO pay. Working paper Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,972
RANK
61,956
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Cost of Pride: Why Do Firms from Developing Countries Bid Higher?

By Ole-kristian Hope, Wayne B. Thomas, ...

Tax Policy and the Efficiency of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad

By Mihir A. Desai, C. Fritz Foley, ...

Tax Policy and the Efficiency of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad

By Mihir A. Desai, C. Fritz Foley, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies