Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Outsourcing Practices of the Kenyan Banking Sector

African Journal of Accounting, Economics, Finance and Banking Research, Vol. 2, No. 2, April 2008

14 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2010

Dulacha G. Barako

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Peter K. Gatere

Central Bank of Kenya

Date Written: April 21, 2008

Abstract

This paper presents contemporary evidence of outsourcing practices of the Kenyan banking sector. A questionnaire was sent to forty commercial banks operating in Kenya. Descriptive analysis results indicate that Automated Teller Machine (ATM) services are the most outsourced function in the sector, while customer account processing is the least outsourced function. Banks associate outsourcing activities with high reputational, operational, strategic and contractual risks. Outsourcing benefits highlighted are: Freeing of resources, cost reduction, access to specialised vendors, focus on core competence, flexibility and improved services. Results of logistic regression indicate that bank size measured as total asset is significantly associated with outsourcing decisions. Bank performance measured as Return on Assets and ratio of Non-Performing Loan (NPL) is not statistically associated with outsourcing decisions. Similarly, banks' wage bill and total operational expenses are not significant determinants of outsourcing decisions. The findings have regulatory policy implications, and in particular the urgent need for formulating a guideline to regulate the apparent proliferation of outsourcing practices in the Kenyan banking sector.

Keywords: Banks, Kenyan Banks, Outsourcing, benefits, risks

JEL Classification: M2, N27

Suggested Citation:

Barako, Dulacha G. and Gatere, Peter K., Outsourcing Practices of the Kenyan Banking Sector (April 21, 2008). African Journal of Accounting, Economics, Finance and Banking Research, Vol. 2, No. 2, April 2008 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1534158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
S Ang , L Cummings
Strategic Response to Institutional Influences on Information Systems Outsourcing
Organization Science , volume 8 , p. 235 - 255 Posted: 1997
Crossref
B A Aubert , M Patry , S Rivard
Managing the risk of IT outsourcing
Proceedings of the 32nd Hawii International Conference on System Sciences Posted: 1998
Crossref
R Bauer
Consumer Behaviour as Risk Taking Posted: 1967
Outsourcing in Financial Services. Bank for International Settlements, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
Risk Taking and Information Handling in Consumer Behaviour Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,301
RANK
44,549
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Nature and Growth of Vertical Specialization in World Trade

By David L. Hummels, Jun Ishii, ...

Foreign Direct Investment and Relative Wages: Evidence from Mexico's Maquiladoras

By Robert C. Feenstra and Gordon H. Hanson

Globalization, Outsourcing, and Wage Inequality

By Robert C. Feenstra and Gordon H. Hanson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies