Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS: On the Docility of Sophisticated Users in Preserving the Ideal of Comparability

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 12 Jan 2010

Sylvain Durocher

University of Ottawa - Telfer School of Management

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Date Written: January 11, 2010

Abstract

This paper questions the ideal of comparability which is often mobilized by standard setters when justifying new – or “improvement” to existing – accounting standards. The target of our analysis is constituted by the thoughts of sophisticated users of financial statements when reflecting about International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) implementation in Europe. Drawing on the work of Mary Douglas on purity and Michel Foucault on docility, it is argued and shown that sophisticated users tend to interpret aberrations – that is to say indications of incomparability which confront users in the flow of their professional lives – in ways which allow the ideal of comparability to be preserved. Important consequences ensuing from the docility of users in purifying aberrations are discussed.

Keywords: Boundaries of purity, Docility, IFRS, Myth production, Sophisticated users of financial statements

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Durocher, Sylvain and Gendron, Yves, IFRS: On the Docility of Sophisticated Users in Preserving the Ideal of Comparability (January 11, 2010). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1534986
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,624
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies