Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of the Application of the Contributory Pension Scheme on Employee Retirement Benefits of Quoted Firms in Nigeria

African Journal of Accounting, Economics, Finance and Banking Research, Vol. 4, No. 4, July 2009

14 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2010

Sule, Kehinde Oluwatoyin

Kogi State University

Christian Ikechukwu Ezugwu

Kogi State University

Date Written: July 16, 2009

Abstract

This paper seeks to evaluate whether or not the application of the Contributory Pension Scheme has an impact on employee retirement benefits of quoted firms in Nigeria. In line with this objective, a hypothesis was formulated. The population of the study is the one hundred and eighty-two (182) firms quoted on the first-tier market of the Nigeria Stock Exchange and ten (10) quoted firms selected as sample size based on judgmental sampling. The study utilizes data from secondary source. Data are obtained from the annual accounts and reports of the (10) quoted firms that make up the sample of the study. The time frame for the study is ten years, covering the period 1996-2005. The technique of analysis in the study was the Student’s t - test for paired observations. We conclude that even though the application of the contributory pension scheme has positive impact on employee retirement benefits of quoted firms in Nigeria, the study recommends an effective monitoring/supervision and enforcement of the provisions of the Pension Reform Act, 2004. Also, the study recommends an effective implementation of the penalties provided by the Act on non compliers regardless of their status or origin among others.

Keywords: Contributory, pension scheme, employee, Retirement benefits, Quoted firms and Nigeria

JEL Classification: G23

Suggested Citation:

Oluwatoyin, Sule, Kehinde and Ezugwu, Christian Ikechukwu, Evaluation of the Application of the Contributory Pension Scheme on Employee Retirement Benefits of Quoted Firms in Nigeria (July 16, 2009). African Journal of Accounting, Economics, Finance and Banking Research, Vol. 4, No. 4, July 2009 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1534207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Y O Abdul-Maliq
Research Methodology in Business and the Social Sciences Posted: 2006
A Adegbayi
Pension industry Development in Nigeria; A Thrust of the Pension Reform Act
Thisday Newspaper Posted: 2004
M Ahmad
The Contributory Pension Scheme: Institutional and Legal Frameworks
CBN Bullion , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2006-04
N Asika
Understanding the New Pension Reform Act (PRA)
Research Methodology in the Behavioral Sciences , volume 3 , p. 7 - 18 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,685
RANK
156,431
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies