Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Ownership and Accounting Conservatism in Japan: A Test of Management Entrenchment Effect

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2010

Akinobu Shuto

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Tomomi Takada

Kobe University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Date Written: December 30, 2009

Abstract

We examine the effect of managerial ownership on the demand for accounting conservatism in Japan. We find that within the low and high levels of managerial ownership, managerial ownership is significantly negatively related to the asymmetric timeliness of earnings, which is consistent with the implication of the incentive alignment effect. We also find a significant positive relationship between managerial ownership and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings for the intermediate levels of managerial ownership, as suggested by the management entrenchment effect. These evidences support our prediction and suggest the possibility that accounting conservatism contributes to addressing the agency problem between managers and shareholders.

Keywords: Managerial ownership, accounting conservatism, alignment effect, entrenchment effect

JEL Classification: M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Shuto, Akinobu and Takada, Tomomi, Managerial Ownership and Accounting Conservatism in Japan: A Test of Management Entrenchment Effect (December 30, 2009). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1535354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , M R Morton , M Stanford-Harris , ; S Duellman
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-shareholder Conflicts over Dividend Policy and in Reducing Debt Costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 90 Posted: 2002
Crossref
W Beekes , P Pope , S Young
The Link between Earnings Timeliness, Earnings Conservatism and Board Composition: Evidence from the UK
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 59 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R M Bushman , J D Piotroski
Financial Reporting Incentives for Conservative Accounting: The Influence of Legal and Political Institutions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 107 - 155 Posted: 2006
Crossref
F F Fama , J D Macbeth
Risk, Return, and Equilibrium: Empirical Tests
Journal of Political Economy , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 607 - 643 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Ian Eddie , Tomoyasu Yamaguchi
Accounting Conservatism and Income Smoothing after the Japanese Sarbanes–Oxley Act
Asian Journal of Business and Accounting 17 (1): 1-41, 2024 · 38 Pages · Posted: 14 Jun 2018 · Last revised: 21 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 300
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou , Ioannis Chasiotis , Georgios Loukopoulos
<span>Conservative Financial Reporting, Dividend Smoothing, and Firm Value</span>
66 Pages · Posted: 16 Jun 2025 · Last revised: 30 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 67
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
668
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,335
RANK
89,895
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies