Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS Adoption and Investor Protection on Earnings Quality Around the World

International Journal of Accounting, 47(3), 333-355

36 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2010 Last revised: 27 Sep 2012

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Keitha L. Dunstan

Bond University - School of Business

A.K.M. Waresul Karim

Saint Mary's College of California - Graduate Business Programs

Date Written: October 5, 2011

Abstract

This study examines the effects of mandatory IFRS adoption and investor protection on the quality of accounting earnings in forty-six countries (around the globe). The results suggest that earnings quality increases for mandatory IFRS adoption when a country’s investor protection regime provides stronger protection. This study extends the current literature that shows that accounting practices are influenced by country level macro settings. The results highlight the importance of investor protection for financial reporting quality and the need for regulators to design mechanisms that limit managers’ earnings management practices.

Keywords: earnings quality, discretionary accruals, accruals quality, earnings persistence, micro governance, and macro governance

JEL Classification: M44, M43

Suggested Citation:

Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and van Zijl, Tony and Dunstan, Keitha L. and Karim, A.K.M. Waresul, The Effect of IFRS Adoption and Investor Protection on Earnings Quality Around the World (October 5, 2011). International Journal of Accounting, 47(3), 333-355, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1536460
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
H Daske , L Hail , C Leuz , R Verdi , D A Guenther , D Young
The association between financial accounting measures and real economic activity: A multinational study
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 72 Posted: 2000
R Hagerman , M Zmijewski
Some economic determinants of accounting policy choice
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 161 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Paul Hribar , Craig Nichols
The Use of Unsigned Earnings Quality Measures in Tests of Earnings Management
Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 11-06 Pages: 46 Posted: 15 Jun 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R W Holthausen
Testing the relative power of accounting standards versus incentives and other institutional features to influence the outcome of financial reporting in an international setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 271 - 283 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,009
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,008
RANK
18,496
20 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies