Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of High Quality Auditing in Enforcing and Implementing IFRS: The Case of Goodwill Impairment

Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2010 Paper

39 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2010

Donald J. Stokes

Monash University

John Webster

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January, 14 2010

Abstract

We examine the value of higher audit quality in enforcing and implementing International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) using the recent changes in goodwill accounting regulation. IFRS requires management to test for goodwill impairment and write off impairment losses against income. Accounting regulators claim that the IFRS impairment regime better reflects the underlying economic attributes of goodwill. Our results indicate that this claim depends on the enforcement and implementation of IFRS standards by higher quality assurance providers. We develop arguments as to why choosing a Big 4 auditor gives greater assurance of IFRS enforcement and implementation. We find support for this proposition by showing that goodwill impairment charges under IFRS better reflect the underlying economic value of the goodwill only in the presence of high quality auditing and that this is most apparent in ensuring that no goodwill impairment charges are made against income where this supported by the firm’s circumstances.

Keywords: IFRS, audit quality, accounting quality, goodwill, impairment

JEL Classification: M44, M49

Suggested Citation:

Stokes, Donald and Webster, John, The Value of High Quality Auditing in Enforcing and Implementing IFRS: The Case of Goodwill Impairment (January, 14 2010). Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2010 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1536832 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1536832
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Chris S Armstrong , Mary E Barth , Alan D Jagolinzer , Edward J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming. Available at SSRN Posted: 2009-04-20
Crossref
Australian Accounting Standard AASB 1013 Accounting for Goodwill
Australian Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2004
W R Baber , S N Janakiraman , S H Kang
Investment opportunities and the structure of executive compensation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 297 - 318 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R Ball
The Firm as a Specialist Contracting Intermediary: Application to Accounting and Auditing Posted: 1989
Load more
6 Citations
Hichem Khlif , Imen Achek
IFRS adoption and auditing: a review
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 338 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Md Khokan Bepari , Abu Taher Mollik
Effect of audit quality and accounting and finance backgrounds of audit committee members on firms’ compliance with IFRS for goodwill impairment testing
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 196 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Jennifer Chen , Stephen R. Moehrle
Accounting for Goodwill: A Literature Review and Analysis
41 Pages · Posted: 5 Nov 2015 · Downloads: 1,869
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Cheng Y. Lai , Yang Li , Yaowen Shan , Stephen L. Taylor
Costs of Mandatory IFRS: Evidence of Reduced Accrual Reliability
42 Pages · Posted: 4 Oct 2013 · Downloads: 245
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,881
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,084
RANK
20,553
6 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies