Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Framework for Financial Reporting Standards: Issues and a Suggested Model

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1004

Posted: 15 Jan 2010 Last revised: 12 Jun 2013

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Robert H. Colson

Grant Thornton LLP

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Stephen R. Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

James A. Ohlson

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Stephen H. Penman

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation; Bocconi University

Gary Previts

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Thomas L. Stober

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Ross L. Watts

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 14, 2010

Abstract

This paper addresses the issues that confront the FASB and IASB in developing a new conceptual framework document. First, we suggest characteristics that a conceptual framework ought to exhibit. Most of these suggestions are based on our critique of the existing framework and the FASB-IASB work in progress. Second, we present a model framework that exhibits these characteristics. We emphasize up front that this framework is quite explicit. It goes to the heart of what a framework document should do: it places specific restrictions on what constitutes admissible accounting standards. The purpose of our effort is to stimulate broad discussion of alternative approaches to foundational documents and to offer a specific example of such an alternative approach.

Keywords: FASB, IASB, Conceptual Framework, Accounting Standards, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M44, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Robert J. and Christensen, Theodore E. and Colson, Robert H. and Jamal, Karim and Moehrle, Stephen R. and Ohlson, James A. and Penman, Stephen H. and Previts, Gary J. and Stober, Thomas L. and Sunder, Shyam and Watts, Ross L., A Framework for Financial Reporting Standards: Issues and a Suggested Model (January 14, 2010). University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1536613
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,062
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies