Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidences of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Implementation in Brazil: The Case of Derivatives

8 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2010

Fernando D.R. Murcia

University of São Paulo

Ariovaldo dos Santos

University of São Paulo (USP)

Date Written: January 14, 2010

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to analyze the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Brazil. This analysis focuses specifically on derivative transactions. For these, a disclosure index has been elaborated using recent Brazilian standards, which are based on the IAS 39 – Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement and on the IAS 32 – Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation. This disclosure index has a total of 4 categories and 22 sub-categories: qualitative information (5), quantitative information (6), derivative values (5) and sensitivity analysis (6). Sample is composed by the top 100 largest non-financial public companies. Information has been gathered from Financial Statements for the years ended in 2006, 2007 and 2008 with the use of content analysis. Main findings are: (i) more than half of companies did not disclose the initial accounting effects of new standards, (ii) the majority of companies did disclose the fair value of these financial instruments but did not disclose the criterion utilized in computing them and (iii) some companies still do not evidence any information regarding their transaction with derivatives. In sum, new accounting standards, based on IFRS, did have a positive impact of corporate disclosure but companies still do not disclose all the information required.

Keywords: Accounting, IFRS, Global Convergence, Regulation, Disclosure, Derivatives, Brazil

JEL Classification: M44, M47, M41

Suggested Citation:

Murcia, Fernando D.R. and Santos, Ariovaldo dos, Evidences of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Implementation in Brazil: The Case of Derivatives (January 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1536608 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1536608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Ray Ball
International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS): Pros e cons for investors
Journal of Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Ray ; Ball , S P Kothari , Ashok Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Laurence Bardin , Análise De Conteúdo , Lisboa
, volume 70 Posted: 1977
Comissão De , Mobiliários
Instrução CVM Nº. 475, de 17 de dezembro de Posted: 2008
Load more
2 Citations
Yasean A. Tahat , Theresa Dunne , Suzanne Fifield , David M. Power
The impact of IFRS 7 on the significance of financial instruments disclosure
Accounting Research Journal , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 241 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Yosra Mnif , Oumaima Znazen
Corporate governance and compliance with IFRS 7
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 448 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,059
RANK
129,393
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies