Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Australian Fuel Substitution Tax Model: ORANI-LFT

Energy Economics, Vol. 12, No. 4, 1990

Posted: 14 Jan 2010

Viv Hall

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Economics & Finance; Australian National University (ANU) - Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis (CAMA)

Date Written: 1990

Abstract

ORANI is a general purpose short-run general equilibrium model of the Australian economy. ORANI-LFT extends this basic model to enable examination of tax issues and interfuel substitution in the industrial sector. The extended model is used to illustrate the effects of a substantial switch from crude oil levy revenue to petroleum products excise revenue. The fall in crude oil revenue is assumed to emanate from a 10% fall in the world price of crude oil. The aggregate and sectoral results presented are consistent with the broad qualitative conclusions derived from a partial equilibrium analysis. It is also pointed out how the model could be extended in future research to investigate issues associated with Australian oil market deregulation.

Keywords: ORANI, General Equilibrium, Australia, Tax, Industrial Sector, Fuel, Deregulation

JEL Classification: O13, H23

Suggested Citation:

Hall, Viv, An Australian Fuel Substitution Tax Model: ORANI-LFT (1990). Energy Economics, Vol. 12, No. 4, 1990, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1536235
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,104
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies