Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Compliance and Disclosure in the Banking Sector: Using Data from Japan

Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2010 Paper

29 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2010 Last revised: 9 Mar 2010

Pran Krishansing Boolaky

University of Southern Queensland - School of Accounting, Economics and Finance

Kim Thomas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 5, 2010

Abstract

Using regression model this study investigates which characteristics of a bank is associated with the extent of corporate governance disclosure in Japan. The findings suggest that on average 8 banks out of a sample of 46 disclose optimal corporate governance information. The regression model results reveal in general that non-executive directors, cross-ownership, capital adequacy ratio and type of auditors are associated with the extent of corporate governance disclosure. Of these four variables, non-executive directors have a more significant impact on the extent of disclosure contrary to total assets and audit firms of banks in the context of Japan. The findings of this paper are relevant for corporate regulators, professional associations and developers of corporate governance code when designing or updating corporate governance code.

Keywords: Japan, Corporate Governance, History, banking Sector

JEL Classification: G34, M47

Suggested Citation:

Boolaky, Pran Krishansing and Thomas, Kim, Corporate Governance Compliance and Disclosure in the Banking Sector: Using Data from Japan (March 5, 2010). Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2010 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1536879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1536879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Renée B. Adams , Hamid Mehran
Is Corporate Governance Different for Bank Holding Companies?
Pages: 40 Posted: 1 May 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Cw &amp; Anderson , Campbell , Tl
Corporate governance of Japanese banks
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 327 - 54 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Corporate Governance and the Credit Crunch ACCA policy paper viewed 4 Posted: 2008-06
The OECD Principles for good corporate governance Posted: 2007-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,786
RANK
126,012
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies