Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Signaling the Uncertainty of Future Economic Benefits: Accounting for R&D in Australia

Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2010 Paper

36 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2010

Anne-Maree Thomas

Macquarie University

Hai Wu

Australian National University (ANU) - College of Business and Economics

Sue Wright

UTS Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 15, 2010

Abstract

This paper contributes empirical evidence to the international accounting debate over whether capitalisation of research and development (R&D) expenditure should be permitted. It exploits more flexible accounting rules in Australia prior to 2005 which allowed expensing or capitalisation of R&D at management discretion. Following Kothari, Laguerre and Leone (2002), association with the uncertainty of future economic benefits is used to evaluate the capitalising versus expensing decision. This paper examines the associations of total R&D expenditures and separate capitalised and expensed R&D expenditures, as well as PPE expenditures, with future earnings variability. The results, which are robust to alternative measures of key variables, show that the expensed R&D is associated with higher earnings variability. We interpret this as indicating that management uses its accounting choice to signal the uncertainty of future economic benefits from R&D expenditures to investors, rather than using it to manage earnings.

Keywords: research and development, accounting discretion, information

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, Anne-Maree and Wu, Hai and Wright, Sue, Signaling the Uncertainty of Future Economic Benefits: Accounting for R&D in Australia (January 15, 2010). Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2010 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1536930 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1536930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
E Mohd
Accounting for Software Development Costs and Information Asymmetry
Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 4 , p. 1211 - 1242 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R D Morris
Signalling, Agency Theory and Accounting Policy Choice
Accounting & Business Research , volume 18 , issue 69 , p. 47 - 56 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Oswald , P Dr &amp; Zarowin
Capitalization of R&D and the Informativeness of Stock Prices
European Accounting Review , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 703 - 729 Posted: 2007
Crossref
W F Sharpe
Capital Asset Prices: A Theory of Market Equilibrium under conditions of Risk
Journal of Finance , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 425 - 467 Posted: 1964
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,562
RANK
225,151
1 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Risk and Return from Factors

By Louis K.c. Chan, J. Karaceski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies