Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of Financial Reporting for Private Entities in the European Union

10 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2010 Last revised: 31 Jan 2010

Michele Bertoni

University of Trieste - Department of Economics, Business, Mathematics and Statistics

Bruno De Rosa

University of Trieste - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: January 13, 2010

Abstract

Purpose of this paper: This paper aims to discuss the recently introduced International Financial Reporting Standard for Small and Medium-Sized Entities (IFRS for SMEs) and its effects, with particular emphasis on the financial reporting framework within the European Union. The study aims to explain the consequences of introducing financial reporting standards developed for a “strong equity” (Nobes and Parker, 1998) context to a situation in which there is no or little separation between ownership and control.

Design: The paper opted for a conceptual approach, describing the origins of differential reporting for small and medium-sized entities, usually based on the needs of the users of financial information and assessing the consequences of reducing this degree of financial reporting by the means of the new IASB’s standard, based on the same conceptual framework as the “full IFRSs” adopted by listed companies. The authors chose to give special attention to the financial reporting framework of the European Union for two reasons: 1) the EU decided to adopt IFRSs for all listed companies in 2005, but left to each member State to decide whether to apply those standards to private companies; and 2) most EU countries can be described as “weak equity” countries, where financial reporting is oriented toward creditors, and not investors, and where publishing financial statements is a legal obligation for unlisted companies.

Findings: The introduction of a new standard for small and medium-sized entities’ financial reporting in the EU would have a twofold effect: Harmonizing financial reporting for all unlisted companies within the EU and introducing standards oriented toward investors’ needs in a weak equity environment, thus creating a potential gap between small and medium-sized entities’ financial reporting and users’ needs. This paper argues, however, that a common framework for financial reporting for public and private entities is in the best interest of the users of financial information, especially from the point of view of EU financial reporting harmonization. In fact, the coexistence of a two or even three-tiered structure of accounting regulation could lead to confusion for the users and to an increase in the costs of financial reporting for the preparers. The new standard would have the welcomed outcome of reducing the degree of differential reporting between listed and private companies, thus providing users and preparers alike with one single “true and fair view” when describing a firm’s financial performance and financial position.

Originality/value: This paper fulfills the need to study the potential effect of the prospective application of the new financial reporting standards for small and medium-sized entities. The issue is highly debated in literature and among practitioners, for matters of cost, opportunity and feasibility of such a great leap in financial reporting for private entities.

Keywords: IFRS, private entities, accounting harmonization, ownership structure, small and medium-sized entities

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bertoni, Michele and De Rosa, Bruno, The Evolution of Financial Reporting for Private Entities in the European Union (January 13, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1536065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1536065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
C Aggestam-Ponoppidan
A Global Forum for Accountancy Debates , volume 5 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Bartelsman , S Scarpetta , F Schivardi
Comparative Analysis of Firm Demographics and Survival: Micro-Level Evidence for the OECD Countries
The Modern Corporation and Private Property , volume 348 Posted: 1932
A N Berger , G F Udell
A More Complete Conceptual Framework for SME Finance
World Bank Conference on Small and Medium Enterprises: Overcoming Growth Constraints , p. 14 - 15 Posted: 2004-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,001
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,963
RANK
52,284
4 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does Regulatory Harmonization Increase Bilateral Asset Holdings?

By Jonas Vlachos

Financial Regulatory Harmonization and the Globalization of Finance

By Cally Jordan and Giovanni Majnoni

Financial Regulatory Harmonization and the Globalization of Finance

By Cally Jordan and Giovanni Majnoni

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies