Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Fallacy of Income and Income Measurement in Accounting

Posted: 16 Jan 2010

Ahmad Bello

Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, Nigeria; Univerisiti Utara Malaysia

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 16, 2010

Abstract

One of the most compelling problems that continue to confront Accountants is the measurement of income of an economic entity. The issue of income recognition measurement and report is at the heart of financial reporting, especially with the current effort to internationalize accounting standard. Researchers, practitioners, and standard setters continue to debate on this matter at various world fora without a consensus. This paper seeks to address two questions: what constitute accounting income and how effective it can be measured? The research effort utilizes literature survey and analysis of content to arrive at an inference. Our Survey reveals that failure of accountants to conceptual the concepts of income constructively has resulted in verities of income measurement procedures each producing different income numbers. The determination of income and income measurement is in a state of flux. Considerable research effort is needed to come up with accounting concept of income as a prerequisite of solving measurement problem. Without well constructive definition, unification of accounting procedures will continue to be a mirage.

Keywords: income, accounting, fallacy

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bello, Ahmad, The Fallacy of Income and Income Measurement in Accounting (January 16, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1537642
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,238
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies