Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Web of Creditor and Shareholder Protection in 25 Countries: A Comparative Legal Network Analysis

39 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2010 Last revised: 30 Jan 2014

Mathias Siems

European University Institute (EUI); University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research

Date Written: September 10, 2010

Abstract

How different are common law and civil law legal systems? This question has occupied legal scholars for a long time. In the last 15 years the common law/civil law divide has also become a major theme in research of economics, finance and business. In many studies it is alleged that English legal origin countries provide 'better law' than French and German legal origin countries, and, as a result, more developed financial markets. This paper uses a new methodology in order to examine whether there are really differences between English, French and German legal origin countries, or whether the alternative explanations are preferable.

The basis of this paper are datasets on creditor and shareholder protection in 25 countries. Part II describes how these datasets can be transformed into matrices showing differences between countries. Part III creates scatterplots on how different countries are from particular 'benchmark countries,' such as the UK, France and Germany. It also introduces a new distinction between two types of legal origin effects. Part IV turns to social network analysis. It starts with different ways in which the relationships between all countries can be presented and compared by networks. Then, it analyzes the 'ego-networks' of the three origin countries UK, France and Germany. The final part examines whether 'cliques' or 'factions' of countries can be identified.

This paper is part of a wider research project. The related papers can be downloaded at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=991092 and http://ssrn.com/abstract=1580120

Keywords: social network analysis, comparative law, creditor protection, shareholder protection, legal origins

JEL Classification: G20, K00, K22, K35, L14, O17

Suggested Citation:

Siems, Mathias, The Web of Creditor and Shareholder Protection in 25 Countries: A Comparative Legal Network Analysis (September 10, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1537564 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1537564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Russia joins this clique in the next step, which is plausible since modern Russian company law has been heavily influenced by AngloSaxon transplants. 97 There is also a clique consisting of the United States, France, and Japan, which, similarly, can be explained by some Americanization of French and Japanese corporate law. 98 A counter-model seems to be the interconnected cliques of
Switzerland Sweden Turkey The cliques in Figure 13 can be interpreted as follows: The commonality between the U.K. and Canada follows naturally from the common law
See Black
Self-Enforcing Model, supra note 48
See Lele & Siems, supra note 23, at 32; Supra note 48 and accompanying text
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,062
RANK
138,019
8 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies