Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: Tax-Included Pricing for HST - Are We There Yet?

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 57, No. 4, p. 839, 2009

Posted: 20 Jan 2010

David M. Sherman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Under Canada's goods and services tax (GST), harmonized sales tax (HST), and provincial retail sales tax (RST), most goods and services are advertised at prices on which taxes are extra. Taxes are added at the cash register on every purchase, and consumer dislike of (and political opposition to) the GST and HST is due primarily to this high visibility. In all other value-added tax (VAT) countries, prices are shown tax-included. Canada currently does not have mandatory GST- or RST-included pricing for constitutional reasons: legislation dealing with pricing is generally within provincial jurisdiction, and provincial RSTs must be direct taxes, which are understood to require tax-extra pricing. With the pending implementation of the HST in Ontario and British Columbia in July 2010, the conditions will be in place for Canada and most provinces to enact legislation mandating tax-included prices. The author contends that this would be good for the Canadian economy, explores associated technical issues, and discusses whether Canada could impose a flat 13 percent HST across the country for the sake of uniformity in pricing, despite the objections of the provinces.

Keywords: GST, Goods and Services Tax, Harmonized Sales Taxes, Pricing, Political Policy, Advertising

Suggested Citation:

Sherman, David M., Policy Forum: Tax-Included Pricing for HST - Are We There Yet?. Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 57, No. 4, p. 839, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1539632
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,180
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies