Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Through Audit Committee: A Study of the Indian Corporate Sector

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 9, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 47-56, January & April 2010

Posted: 23 Jan 2010

Rajeev Puri

DAV College

Ruchi Trehan

Apeejay College, Jalandhar

Hashima Kakkar

Apeejay College

Date Written: January 22, 2010

Abstract

The present study aims at examining the effectiveness of audit committees as a tool of corporate governance in the Indian corporate sector. It is based on analysis of 10 listed companies of India which include Steel Authority of India Limited, Tata Chemicals Limited, Whirlpool of India Limited, Larsen & Toubro Limited, Power Grid Limited, DLF Limited, etc. Through case survey approach, this study reveals that the concept of audit committee is not new in India but is gaining importance day by day. The functions of audit committee have gradually shifted from traditional areas of accounting. In the current scenario, the audit committees set up by Indian corporate houses perform diverse functions in the areas of financial reporting, financial analysis, audit planning, reviewing of external audit, internal control and evaluation, etc. The study also reveals that in all the companies under study there is independent representation of the audit committees which act as a channel of communication between external auditors and board of directors. The dynamic nature of the role of the audit committees makes corporate governance more effectual in the context of the Indian corporate.

Suggested Citation:

Puri, Rajeev and Trehan, Ruchi and Kakkar, Hashima, Corporate Governance Through Audit Committee: A Study of the Indian Corporate Sector (January 22, 2010). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 9, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 47-56, January & April 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1540364
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,952
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies