Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Asymmetric Loss Recognition Timeliness in Public and Private Firms in Brazil

36 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2010 Last revised: 9 Jan 2016

Antonio Carlos Coelho

UFC - FEAAC - PPAC

Fernando Caio Galdi

Fundacao Instituto Capixaba de Pesquisas em Contabilidade, Economia e Financas (FUCAPE)

Alexsandro Broedel Lopes

Universidade de São Paulo; Manchester Business School

Date Written: January 24, 2010

Abstract

We investigate the determinants of asymmetric loss recognition timeliness (ALRT) for public and private Brazilian firms. We extend and complement Ball and Shivakumar (2005) by investigating ALRT for private and public firms in Brazil where, unlike in the UK setting, equity markets do not provide the adequate incentives for high quality financial reporting. In Brazil, even the public companies listed on Stock Exchange do not face the same institutional environment of the British firms. Using a unique database of Brazilian public and private firms we document that Brazilian public and private firms present similar ALRT, different from the evidence that Ball and Shivakumar (2005) reported for the UK. We also show that ALRT is not significantly affected by firm’s issuing activity in debt markets, leverage and the presence of covenants.

Keywords: Earnings quality, conservatism, loss recognition, private firms, public leverage, emerging markets, Brazil

JEL Classification: M41, K22, N24

Suggested Citation:

Coelho, Antonio Carlos Dias and Galdi, Fernando Caio and Broedel Lopes, Alexsandro, Determinants of Asymmetric Loss Recognition Timeliness in Public and Private Firms in Brazil (January 24, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1541628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1541628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: an empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-Specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C W Anderson
Financial Contracting Under Extreme Uncertainty: an Analysis of Brazilian Corporate Debentures
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 51 , p. 45 - 84 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of Institutional Factors on the Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
407
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,272
RANK
165,258
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies