Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Failure in India: A Study of Academicians Perception

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 9, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 99-112, January & April 2010

Posted: 25 Jan 2010

Gurbandini Kaur

All India Management Association

Richa Mishra

India Tourism Development Corporation

Date Written: January 25, 2010

Abstract

Corporate governance has been gaining momentum across the world due to corporate failures, unethical business practices and insufficient disclosures. It has been observed that corporate frauds have increased in frequency, intensity and magnitude. The prevailing inequality, glorification of greed, lack of concern for society, feudal mindset and manifold regulations, are some reasons responsible for increase in the rate of scams. Though a lot of new standards have been set, changes in accounting and reporting have been made, with a focus on the process of enforcement and compliance, but the need of the hour is to build a highly committed workforce to observe good corporate governance in practice. Thus, a major responsibility lies on the shoulders of academicians who are considered as intellectuals in imparting the concept of corporate governance in the minds of young professionals. The study aims to understand the perception of academicians regarding reasons for failure of corporate governance in India.

Suggested Citation:

Kaur, Gurbandini and Mishra, Richa, Corporate Governance Failure in India: A Study of Academicians Perception (January 25, 2010). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 9, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 99-112, January & April 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1541764
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,913
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies