Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants and Consequences of Heterogeneous IFRS Compliance Levels Following Mandatory IFRS Adoption: Evidence from a Developing Country

Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2010 Last revised: 16 Jan 2012

Francesco Bova

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Raynolde Pereira

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 15, 2011

Abstract

The adoption of international accounting standards, namely the IFRS, at the country level has sparked two contrasting, but not mutually exclusive, viewpoints. One view is that IFRS engenders better reporting standards and uniform adoption allows for greater comparability. The upshot is that IFRS adoption will improve a firm’s information environment and hence contribute towards a lower cost of capital. The alternative view is that accounting quality is shaped by political and economic forces and hence higher quality accounting standards will not necessarily translate into higher quality reporting. We empirically evaluate these arguments on IFRS adoption using both private and publicly traded firm observations from Kenya, a developing country with relatively open capital markets but limited enforcement resources. Our analysis takes advantage of a unique dataset involving firm-specific measurements of IFRS compliance. We find that while both private and public firms are required to adhere to IFRS, public, rather than private firms, exhibit greater IFRS compliance. Highlighting the influence of capital market openness, we find that foreign ownership is positively and significantly correlated with IFRS compliance. Probing the underlying causal relationship, additional analysis suggests that greater foreign ownership leads to greater IFRS compliance. Examining the effects of IFRS compliance, higher compliance is positively associated with share turnover. Overall, our evidence illustrates both the importance of economic incentives in shaping IFRS compliance and the capital market benefits to being compliant with IFRS in a low enforcement country.

Keywords: IFRS, standard enforcement, foreign ownership, public ownership, Kenya

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G15, G38

Suggested Citation:

Bova, Francesco and Pereira, Raynolde, The Determinants and Consequences of Heterogeneous IFRS Compliance Levels Following Mandatory IFRS Adoption: Evidence from a Developing Country (December 15, 2011). Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1542240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1542240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E J
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K Bae , R Stultz , H Tan
Do Local Analysts Know More? A Cross-Country Study of the Performance of Local Analysts and Foreign Analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 3 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS: Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,792
RANK
40,083
7 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies