Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Design of a Post-Completion Auditing System for Organizational Learning

The Finnish Journal of Business Economics, 2011, Vol. 60, No 2, pp. 173-212.

Posted: 27 Jan 2010 Last revised: 19 Aug 2013

Jari Huikku

Aalto University School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 26, 2011

Abstract

The literature suggests that the major objective of a company's post-completion auditing (PCA) of capital investments is the enhancement of organizational learning (OL) for future capital investment. PCA scholars further propose that adequate content and communication of PCA reports play a major role in enabling OL. Nevertheless, there is little empirical research on the design of PCA systems in general, and on their communication aspects in particular. Consequently, this field study investigates whether or not the design of PCA systems provides a platform for OL. First, with the aid of Huber’s (1991) categorisation of OL constructs and the PCA literature, an OL-conducive PCA design was synthesised. It was then used as a benchmark for investigating PCA practices in companies. The empirical evidence comes primarily from the 14 PCA adopters, for which enhancement of OL is the dominant objective of their PCA. These adopters were identified during 49 face-to-face interviews conducted in the 30 largest Finnish manufacturing companies. The findings of this study suggest that PCA design, and specifically aspects related to a PCA report and its communication, can play a major role in facilitating or hindering the extent to which PCA enhances OL. Importantly, it appears that organizational-memory-related issues, such as the inappropriate filing of and difficult access to PCA reports, inhibit the effective transfer and sharing of investment experiences. Additionally, a lack of improvement proposals, failure to institute systematic follow-up, lack of interactive forums for the interpretation of results, and restricted dissemination of PCA reports appear to have a negative effect on learning potential. Furthermore, the findings support the contention that reliance on alternative methods of managing investment knowledge (e.g. utilising central expertise and experienced internal resources) can diminish the willingness of smaller companies to develop PCA as an OL tool.

Keywords: Post-Completion Auditing, Post-auditing, Capital Investment, Organizational Learning, Management Control System Design, Field Study

JEL Classification: E22, G31, L60, M41

Suggested Citation:

Huikku, Jari, Design of a Post-Completion Auditing System for Organizational Learning (July 26, 2011). The Finnish Journal of Business Economics, 2011, Vol. 60, No 2, pp. 173-212., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1542660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1542660
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,549
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies