Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Financial Reporting in Oman

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 45-54, 2007

Posted: 17 Feb 2010

Peter B. Oyelere

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ehab K. A. Mohamed

The German University in Cairo - Faculty of Management Technology

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

This paper investigates the extent and variety of practices of internet financial reporting (IFR) by companies listed on the Muscat Securities Market (MSM) in Oman. While IFR is fast becoming the norm in most western countries, there is little empirical evidence of the phenomenon in the Middle East region. This paper attempts to fill some of the gap in the literature by providing evidence of IFR practices in Oman. The 142 companies listed on the MSM were investigated to ascertain whether they maintain websites and/or if these sites are being used for communicating financial information. Only 84 of the listed companies were found to operate websites, with even less (only thirty-one) engaging in IFR. However, IFR is not restricted to the publication of annual financial statements only as the companies also disclose financial highlights through their websites. The results of this study indicate that IFR is still at an embryonic stage in Oman and there are lots of opportunities and challenges for all stakeholder parties in corporate reporting. The study highlights the challenges and opportunities for IFR in the Middle East Region, as well as a number of areas for further study.

Suggested Citation:

Oyelere, Peter B. and Mohamed, Ehab K. A., Internet Financial Reporting in Oman (2007). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 45-54, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1542879
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Financial Reporting: Firm Characteristics and the Use of the Internet as a Medium of Communication by Listed Firms in Ghana

By Ben Kwame Agyei-mensah

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies