Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is the Effect of China's SOX-Act?

Posted: 26 Jan 2010 Last revised: 30 Jan 2010

Liyan Wang

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Jidong Zhang

Winona State University

Date Written: November 1, 2009

Abstract

In this paper in June 2008 the Ministry of Finance, Securities and Futures Commission, the Audit Commission, China Banking Regulatory Commission, China Insurance Regulatory Commission jointly issued the first basic norms of internal control, as well as the basic norms will be held July 1, 2009 starting first in the purposes of the event within the framework of a listed company as the background, hand-collected in 2008 in accordance with specifications listed companies have implemented a system of internal control reporting audit of a sample to study the internal control reporting audit system effects. The results show that China's so-called Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the implementation of the bill is different from the United States in 2002, displayed a significant positive effect. The internal control reporting audit system is not only significantly improved the company's audit opinion on the quality of the internal control report also found that the audit system of the existing penalty system has significant substitution effect, can reduce the cost of enhancing the regulatory effects of regulation; and internal control reporting audit firm and financial reporting of the separation of auditing firms, making the internal control reporting audit system effect is more significant, for the punishment mechanism of the substitution effect becomes more pronounced.

Keywords: Internal Control SOX Auditing Firm

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Liyan and Zhang, Jidong, What is the Effect of China's SOX-Act? (November 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1542589
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,217
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies