Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Formal Participation in the IASB's Due Process of Standard Setting: A Multi-Issue/Multi-Period Analysis

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 30 Jan 2010

Ann Jorissen

University of Antwerp - Department of Accounting & Finance

Nadine Lybaert

Hasselt University

Raf Orens

Catholic University of Louvain (UCL) - Lessius University College

Leo van der Tas

Ernst & Young, The Netherlands; Tilburg University

Date Written: January 27, 2010

Abstract

This paper sets out to enquire the nature of constituents’ participation in the IASB’s due process in terms of representation (constituents’ diversity and characteristics) and drivers to participate. We choose to adopt a multi-issue/multi-period approach to investigate constituents’ formal participation. An analysis of comment letters sent directly to the IASB over the period 2002-2006, reveals that preparers sent most letters followed by the accounting profession and standard setters. With regard to timing, we find that preparers concentrate their participation efforts at a later stage in the process compared to the other constituents, who react earlier. Formal indirect participation in the IASB’s due process by submitting comments letters to EFRAG is infrequently used by European constituents. In those cases where constituents exert influence to both IASB and EFRAG, they often use exactly the same comment letter. Concentrating on the drivers to participate, the data reveal that preparers, accountants and standard setters react significantly more when proposals have a major impact on the accounting numbers of a company. Users, stock exchanges and their supervisory authorities write significantly more comment letters when disclosure issues are at stake. Finally, participating preparers in the IASB’s due process are larger and more profitable than non-participating preparers.

Keywords: IASB, standard setting, IAS/IFRS, lobbying, constituents’ diversity, multi-issue/multi-period approach

JEL Classification: M40, M44

Suggested Citation:

Jorissen, Ann and Lybaert, Nadine and Orens, Raf and van der Tas, Leo and van der Tas, Leo, Formal Participation in the IASB's Due Process of Standard Setting: A Multi-Issue/Multi-Period Analysis (January 27, 2010). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1543208
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,269
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies