Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability Influence, Technical Difficulty and Measurement Difficulty Towards the Implementation of Indonesian Standard Statement of Financial Accounting (Psak) No. 27 (Revised 1998) About Cooperatives Accounting in East Java

Posted: 1 Feb 2010

Habiburrochman Akram

Faculty of Economics and Business, Airlangga University

Date Written: January 29, 2010

Abstract

Financial report is a tool for business entity to deliver information to stakeholders. The difference of user’s interests causes that the financial report needs to be audited by the independent auditor, to make sure fairness and conform with accounting standard. The cooperatives managers must conduct the rule stated in accounting standard. Thus, that the Accountability, Technical Difficulty, Measurement Difficulty are the basic to realize the implementation of cooperative accounting standard. The objective of the research is to analyze the quality of implementation accounting standard and the adherence to existing rule and regulation. The samples of the research are accounting and finance manager cooperative offices in East Java, Indonesia. The hypothesis tested by ordinary least square with the degree of significant at 0.05. The research found that the Accountability Influence and Technical Difficulty affect significantly to implementation of cooperative accounting standard. However, measurement difficulty doesn’t affect significantly to implementation of cooperative accounting standard.

Keywords: Accountability, Technical Difficulty, Measurement Difficulty, Indonesia Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 27 (revised 1998) about Cooperative Accounting, Member’s economic benefit report

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

akram, habiburrochman, Accountability Influence, Technical Difficulty and Measurement Difficulty Towards the Implementation of Indonesian Standard Statement of Financial Accounting (Psak) No. 27 (Revised 1998) About Cooperatives Accounting in East Java (January 29, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1544205
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
985
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies