Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quality Control Through Venetian Blinds: Regulating the Swedish Auditing Industry

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 29 Jan 2010

Karin Jonnergård

Linnaeus University

Date Written: January 29, 2010

Abstract

In this article I attempt to gain an understanding of the regulatory processes in the auditing industry by studying the development of quality control in Sweden between 1977 and 2004. The article starts with the observation that the audit industry is multilayered and that regulatory processes occur on different levels: between the state and the profession at large and between the professional association and the individual auditor or auditing firm. The focus is on the interaction between the different levels. Through developing a framework built on regulation theories from political science and the field of accounting research, three aspects of the regulatory processes important for the interaction between the levels are defined: the substantive, the justifying and the material. These aspects are later used to analyse the case study, leading to a specification of the characteristics and content of the couplings between the different levels where regulation is occurring.

Keywords: auditing regulation, quality control, materialisation of regulatory devices

Suggested Citation:

Jonnergård, Karin, Quality Control Through Venetian Blinds: Regulating the Swedish Auditing Industry (January 29, 2010). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1544317
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,056
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies