Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative International Tax Law - Issues and Methodology [Der Rechtsvergleich im Internationalen Steuerrecht. Fragestellungen und Methoden]

Münchener Schriften zum Internationalen Steuerrecht, Vol. 29, pp. 87-140, 2010

29 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2010 Last revised: 17 Feb 2010

Ekkehart Reimer

Heidelberg University

Date Written: February 15, 2010

Abstract

In the context of international tax law and, particularly, the law of tax treaties (double taxation conventions), comparative methods have gained significant relevance. This is true both from a domestic tax perspective, the perspective of tax treaty policy, and the application of given rules in international tax law. The paper highlights the evolution and functions of comparative tax law in general (A.), then focuses its particular relevance for cross-border taxation. The methodology of comparative income taxation is exemplified by an analysis of source rules in the U.S., Germany and other countries (B.). From here, comparative methods are highlighted with regard to the design (C.) and application (D.) of double taxation conventions. The paper argues that disparities in the application of treaties can be avoided by a variety of methods, one of them being uniform interpretation based on mutual recognition and diffusion of jurisprudence.

The article is based on a lecture in memory of Professor Dr. Dr. h.c. Klaus Vogel (1930-2007), delivered during a memorial conference in Munich on April 2, 2009.

Note: Downloadable document is in German.

Keywords: comparative tax law, international tax law, double taxation conventions, tax treaties, methodology, uniform interpretation

JEL Classification: B15, B25, B31, B49, E62, F42, H24, H25, H73

Suggested Citation:

Reimer, Ekkehart, Comparative International Tax Law - Issues and Methodology [Der Rechtsvergleich im Internationalen Steuerrecht. Fragestellungen und Methoden] (February 15, 2010). Münchener Schriften zum Internationalen Steuerrecht, Vol. 29, pp. 87-140, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1544251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Smits
S. 709 ff.; der Sache nach auch Anthony C. Infanti, Spontaneous Tax Coordination
Elgar Encyclopedia of Comparative Law , volume 35 Posted: 2002
Exemplarisch Hans Flick
Felix (Hrsg.), Von der Auslegung und Anwendung der Steuergesetze Posted: 1958
Crossref
S. 249; auch abgedruckt in: M. Streit (Hrsg.), Rechtsordnung und Handelsordnung. Aufsätze zur Ordnungsökonomik Posted: 1969
Crossref
Veit Mehde
Wettbewerb zwischen Staaten, S. 33 ff. Speziell aus steuerwissenschaftlicher Sicht auch Johanna Hey, Wettbewerb der Rechtsordnungen oder Europäisierung des Steuerrechts?, in: Reimer u.a. (Hrsg.) Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
740
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,268
RANK
78,826
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies