Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double Taxation in Indirect Tax Laws: A Move Towards a Uniform Goods and Services Tax (GST) Regime

The IUP Journal of International Business Law, Vol. 9, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 90-102, January & April 2010

Posted: 1 Feb 2010

Yashwardhan Bandi

Associated Law Advisers, Antriksh Bhavan

Date Written: February 1, 2010

Abstract

Indirect taxation had never been caught-up with a controversy so far, but quite recently couple of High Court judgments, one delivered by Karnataka HC and the other by Kerala HC needs to be looked at critically, particularly when the issue harpers on ‘double taxation’. These judgments have created confusion on the issue especially in the area of telecommunication service. The dual Goods and Services Tax (GST) is indeed a good step in the right direction but at the same time it is recommended that even the Apex Court should clarify the position on telecommunication service by providing specific guidelines on the same. The success of a dual GST structure will depend upon how well the government executes it in practice provided all the challenges facing its execution are well taken care of.

Suggested Citation:

Bandi, Yashwardhan, Double Taxation in Indirect Tax Laws: A Move Towards a Uniform Goods and Services Tax (GST) Regime (February 1, 2010). The IUP Journal of International Business Law, Vol. 9, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 90-102, January & April 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1545736
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,172
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies