Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Analysis of Financial Reporting in Nigeria and the UK

Posted: 4 Feb 2010

John N. Egbebu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 2, 2010

Abstract

Financial report of countries varies due to differences in accounting practices of different countries. These depend on the level of differences in accounting standards of the countries under review. The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) developed the International Financial Reporting standard (FIRS) which serves as the general international acceptable standard for preparing financial report globally.

These form the bases of this work which compares the financial reporting in Nigeria to that of the UK. For a comprehensive comparison, it is important to understand financial reporting in Nigeria and UK, the governing bodies, relevant financial and environmental factors, regulatory framework, details of accounting rules used in these countries, activities in their stock exchange market, as well as the similarities and differences in annual account of a company in Nigeria to a company in the UK.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Egbebu, John N., A Comparative Analysis of Financial Reporting in Nigeria and the UK (February 2, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1546616
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,933
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies