Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Investigation into the Diffusion of Management Accounting Innovations in the UK, Australia and New Zealand

Research Executives Summaries Series, Vol. 5, No. 9

11 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2010 Last revised: 17 Feb 2010

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Hassan Yazdifar

University of Glasgow

Date Written: February 4, 2010

Abstract

This study examined the influence of contextual factors upon the diffusion of cost and management accounting techniques and procedures. The research involved surveys and interviews with CIMA members in the UK, Australia and New Zealand.

Keywords: AB, ABM, target, costing, balanced scorecard, strategic management, accounting innovation, accounting changes, diffusion

JEL Classification: M46

Suggested Citation:

Askarany, Davood and Yazdifar, Hassan, A Comparative Investigation into the Diffusion of Management Accounting Innovations in the UK, Australia and New Zealand (February 4, 2010). Research Executives Summaries Series, Vol. 5, No. 9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1548036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1548036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,016
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,992
RANK
18,382
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Attributes of Innovation and the Implementation of Managerial Tools: An Activity-Based Management Technique

By Davood Askarany, Malcolm Smith, ...

Contextual Factors and Administrative Changes

By Davood Askarany and Malcolm Smith

Characteristics of Adopters and Organizational Changes

By Davood Askarany

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies