Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Versus Strategic Reporting: Determinants of the Disclosure of Pro Forma Earnings by Large German Corporations

46 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2010

Joerg-Markus Hitz

University of Tübingen

Date Written: February 8, 2010

Abstract

This paper investigates the determinants of firms’ decisions to disclose ‘pro forma’ earnings, voluntarily performance metrics, in a largely unregulated setting, the German capital market. For a sample of earnings releases published by large German firms, we address the role of informative and strategic motives for the disclosure of such voluntary performance metrics, and investigate effects of first-time IFRS adoption. Results indicate that incentives to meet earnings benchmarks play a significant role in the decision to disclose pro forma earnings and are positively associated with relative reporting emphasis assigned to these metrics. On the other hand, we find no evidence that firms use pro forma earnings to compensate for low quality of reported GAAP earnings. Consistent with an informative endeavor, voluntary adopters of IFRS are significantly less likely to use pro forma earnings disclosures and to assign reporting emphasis than mandatory adopters. Taken together, these results suggest that regulatory concern may be warranted, and point out the need for further capital markets based studies.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hitz, Joerg-Markus, Information Versus Strategic Reporting: Determinants of the Disclosure of Pro Forma Earnings by Large German Corporations (February 8, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1549675 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1549675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Kristian D Allee , Bhattacharya , Nilabhra , Ervin L Black , Theodore E Christensen
Pro forma disclosure and investor sophistication: External validation of experimental evidence using archival data, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , p. 201 - 222 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Patric Andersson , Niclas Hellman
Does Pro Forma Reporting Bias Analyst Forecasts?
European Accounting Review , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 298 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Emittentenleitfaden der Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht Posted: 2009-04
Crossref
Alexander Bassen , Stefan Prigge , Christine Zöllner
Behind Broad Corporate Governance Aggregates: A First Look at Single Provisions of the German Corporate Governancen Code
Corporate Ownhership & Control , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 388 - 406 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Yiru Yang , Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)
Effect of Non-IFRS Earnings Reporting Guidelines on Non-IFRS Earnings Reporting Quality: The Case of Australian Listed Firms
Yang, Y. and Abeysekera, I. 2018. Effect of non-IFRS earnings reporting guidelines on underlying earnings reporting quality: The case of Australian Listed firms. Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting. (DOI: 10.1111/jifm.12083). · 51 Pages · Posted: 25 Jun 2018 · Downloads: 88
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,276
RANK
192,800
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Gaap Versus the Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings

By Mark T Bradshaw, Matthew Moberg, ...

The Predictive Value of Expenses Excluded from 'Pro Forma' Earnings

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Russell J. Lundholm, ...

Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings

By Neil Bhattacharya, Ervin L. Black, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies