Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Israel 1998-2002: 'Israeli Technology Leaving by the Front Door', 'Taxable Dollars are Flying Out the Window' Can Israel Tax 'High-Tech Sellouts' Post-2003 & The Rabinovitch Tax Reform‘

67 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2010 Last revised: 30 Mar 2010

Dr. Shlomo Katalan

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: February 7, 2010

Abstract

As of the mid 90's Israeli high-tech firms were no longer established to become a multi-national corporation, but “to be sold-out to foreign multinationals as quickly as possible." Impressive have been the prices that foreign firms have been willing to pay to acquire Israeli start-ups; a landmark “Sellout” that generated wide media coverage was the acquisition of Mirabilis, inventor of the popular chat program ICQ, by AOL in 1998 for $287 Million. Nevertheless, “High-Tech Sellouts” had negative ramifications for Israel. As more of the money behind Israeli projects came from the United States, some feared that the country's high-tech industry is losing its unique traits and become “Americanized." The title of this commentary goes after a 2000-headline, “Tax Engineers; While We Worry About Israeli Technology Leaving by the Front Door, Taxable Dollars are Flying Out the Window. So, What's the Point of a Tax Reform,” a report that displayed the frustration of the Israeli public with the phenomena of Israeli technology startups moving out of Israel, the loss of revenues on “High-Tech Sellouts." This list studies the phenomena of “high-tech emigration” and “High-Tech Sellouts,” with special attention to the Rabinovitch Report, and the 2005-“Mini” Tax Reform. In this list, I challenge the conventional wisdom in Israel that faulty fiscal regularity is the only and chief reason that drove the high-tech sector out of Israel. I will demonstrate this claim by examining the Rabinovitch Tax Reform and the 2005 "Mini Tax Reform" and its impact technology startups, entrepreneurs and foreign investors.

Keywords: High-Tech Emigration, High-Tech Sellouts, Income Tax Base, Rabinovitch Reform

Suggested Citation:

Katalan, Shlomo, Israel 1998-2002: 'Israeli Technology Leaving by the Front Door', 'Taxable Dollars are Flying Out the Window' Can Israel Tax 'High-Tech Sellouts' Post-2003 & The Rabinovitch Tax Reform‘ (February 7, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1549368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1549368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Sabato
Some of them are: Israeli tax laws deter investors, Registering Israeli companies in the U.S. is logical considering the proximity to the U.S. market and its sources of financing. The security situation in Israel deters foreign investors, Israeli corporate legislation makes mergers and acquisitions difficult
See also
Sabato
Crossref
Id
See also statement by Gary Agron, Deputy to the Israeli Income Tax Commissioner, Agron, supra note 39, at 1 ("Israeli entrepreneurs found high-tech companies have set up overseas for three main reasons: the lack of an exemption on capital gains tax for foreign investors; products mainly directed to overseas markets; and high tax rates levied on capital gains produced by Israeli residents. Faulty tax regulations were among the main reasons for the diversion of this resource to other countries, which reaped the intellectual property harvest
See Israel Business Today, Keeping High-tech Companies at Home, WLNR 6944604 IBT , volume 14 Posted: 1999-05-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
RANK
703,106
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies