Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of Compliance and Disclosure Quality Under FRS 36 for Singaporean Listed Firms

31 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2010

Tyrone M. Carlin

Southern Cross University

Khairil Faizal Khairi

Macquarie Graduate School of Management

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Date Written: February 9, 2010

Abstract

Drawing on data from a sample of 168 firms listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange (SGX) over three consecutive years (2005, 2006 and 2007), this study focuses on the issue of IFRS compliance and disclosure quality. Using the requirements of FRS 36 in relation to goodwill impairment testing as the particular focal point for the analysis, the results of this study demonstrate poor levels of compliance and transparency on the part of SGX listed firms with goodwill in relation to their goodwill impairment testing processes and assumptions. This study adds to the literature by providing insights into this phenomenon from the standpoint of an advanced Asia Pacific region jurisdiction not previously subjected to scrutiny on the dimensions drawn upon for the purposes of this study and through the use of a multi-year research design. The results complement and reinforce the significance of earlier research conducted in relation to the focal phenomenon in Australia, Malaysia and New Zealand and suggest the existence of persistent cross-border difficulties with the implementation of the complex technical provisions of the IFRS goodwill impairment testing regime.

Keywords: Goodwill, Impairment, Financial reporting, Creative accounting, Singapore

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Tyrone M. and Khairi, Khairil Faizal and Finch, Nigel, An Empirical Investigation of Compliance and Disclosure Quality Under FRS 36 for Singaporean Listed Firms (February 9, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1550416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1550416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
D Anantharaman
Has SFAS 142 Diminished the Reliability of Goodwill Writeoff? Columbia Business School Working Paper Posted: 2007
Tyrone M. Carlin , Nigel Finch
Early Impressions of Australia's Brave New World of Goodwill Impairment
MGSM Working Paper No. 2007-1 Pages: 26 Posted: 3 Jan 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T M Carlin , N Finch
Evidence of Australia's Compliance with IFRS Goodwill Impairment Testing Disclosures
International Journal of Economic Issues , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 73 Posted: 2009
T M Carlin , N Finch
Resisting Compliance with IFRS Goodwill Accounting and Reporting Disclosures -Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Suresh Ramachandra , Karin Olesen , Anil Kumar. Narayan , Alexander Tsoy
Compliance with international financial reporting paradigm: A tale of two transition paths
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 338 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,141
RANK
310,241
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies