Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Impairment – An Assessment of Disclosure Quality and Compliance Levels by Large Listed New Zealand Firms

27 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2010 Last revised: 1 Mar 2010

Tyrone M. Carlin

Southern Cross University

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Date Written: February 9, 2010

Abstract

The rise of IFRS has resulted in the introduction of fundamental changes to accounting and reporting regimes for goodwill. The impairment testing led approach to goodwill reporting required under IFRS results in a materially different approach to goodwill valuation for balance sheet purposes and to the nature and timing of the influence of goodwill as an asset class on the determination of periodic profit. Arguably, the transition to IFRS goodwill accounting and reporting also results in substantially increased complexity – both in terms of the techniques required of reporting entities in accounting for goodwill, and in the nature of disclosures required in relation to goodwill and its impairment. This suggests the possibility of inconsistent compliance and varying levels of disclosure quality by firms transitioning to reporting under the new regime. This paper reports on the findings of a study of the largest New Zealand listed firms making voluntary disclosure relating to goodwill impairment testing under IAS 36. The study finds that New Zealand firms apply more strictly with the requirements of IAS when compared to Australian firms, and New Zealand firms assume more conservative input assumptions regarding value in use modelling than Australian firms. These findings are of interest to researchers examining the implications of voluntary adoptions and for policy setters and regulators in jurisdiction that have adopted, or are on the pathway to adopting IFRS.

Keywords: Goodwill, Financial Reporting, Creative Accounting, Impairment Accounting, New Zealand

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Tyrone M. and Finch, Nigel, Goodwill Impairment – An Assessment of Disclosure Quality and Compliance Levels by Large Listed New Zealand Firms (February 9, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1550417 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1550417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Brunovs , R Kirsch
Goodwill Accounting in Selected Countries and the Harmonisation of International Accounting Standards
Abacus , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 161 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J Canning
The Economics of Accountancy Posted: 1929
Tyrone M. Carlin , Nigel Finch
Early Impressions of Australia's Brave New World of Goodwill Impairment
MGSM Working Paper No. 2007-1 Pages: 26 Posted: 3 Jan 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tyrone M. Carlin , Nigel Finch
Discount Rates in Disarray: Evidence on Flawed Goodwill Impairment Testing
MGSM Working Paper No. 2008-11 Pages: 28 Posted: 14 Oct 2008 Last revised: 29 Nov 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
1 Citations
Nur Laili , Khairil Faizal Khairi
Accounting for Assets Impairment: Creative Impairment Strategy on Discount Rate Disclosure
Wulfenia, Vol, 21, iss. 2, pp: 136-159, 2014 · 22 Pages · Posted: 10 Jun 2014 · Downloads: 201
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,246
RANK
131,938
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies