Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on IFRS Goodwill Impairment Testing by Australian and New Zealand Firms

22 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2010

Tyrone M. Carlin

Southern Cross University

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Date Written: February 9, 2010

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to provide evidence relating to the potential for and extent of opportunistic exercise of discretion by large Australian and New Zealand reporting entities undertaking goodwill impairment testing pursuant to the IFRS framework. The research question is addressed using an empirical archival approach. Independent risk adjusted estimates of firm discount rates are calculated for a sample of 124 Australian and New Zealand listed firms, and an analysis of variances between these rates and those adopted by sample firms undertaken for the purposes of ascertaining evidence of potential opportunism in discount rate selection. Evidence consistent with opportunism in the selection of discount rates is reported. The results suggest the existence of a bias among Australian and New Zealand firms towards the application of lower than expected discount rates. This is interpreted as evidence of the opportunistic exercise of discretion to avoid unwanted impairment losses. The results raise doubts as to the efficacy of the IFRS impairment testing process in practice and suggest the need for greater rigour and vigilance on the part of auditors and regulators overseeing entities reporting pursuant to IFRS. This is one of a limited number of empirical studies into the effect of the IFRS goodwill impairment testing regime in practice in Australia and New Zealand. The paper provides new empirical insights into the operation of the IFRS regime, in particular, the key dimension of discount rate selection by reporting entities.

Keywords: Goodwill, Financial Reporting, Creative Accounting, Impairment Accounting, Discount Rates, New Zealand, Australia

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Tyrone M. and Finch, Nigel, Evidence on IFRS Goodwill Impairment Testing by Australian and New Zealand Firms (February 9, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1550425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1550425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Franck Bancel , Usha R. Mittoo
The Determinants of Capital Structure Choice: A Survey of European Firms
AFA 2003 Washington, DC Meetings; EFMA 2002 London Meetings Pages: 34 Posted: 2 Feb 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Bierman
Capital budgeting in 1992: a survey
Financial Management , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 24 - 31 Posted: 1993
Crossref
T Brailsford , J C Handley , K Maheswaren
Re-examination of the historical equity risk premium in Australia
Accounting and Finance , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 97 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Tyrone M. Carlin , Nigel Finch
Early Impressions of Australia's Brave New World of Goodwill Impairment
MGSM Working Paper No. 2007-1 Pages: 26 Posted: 3 Jan 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,308
RANK
131,938
2 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies