Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains Taxation in Germany

British Tax Review No. 6, pp. 620-627, 2005

13 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2010

Wolfgang Schoen

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance, Department of Business and Tax Law

Date Written: December 1, 2005

Abstract

How to treat capital gains in the framework of individual income and corporate taxation has been the subject of extensive legislation and academic discussion. Germany's income tax distinguishes between business income, where capital gains and losses form part of an extensive concept of income, and an individual's “private” gains, where only certain disposals are covered by income tax. Practical problems arise on how to separate income into business and private income. Gradually, the exempt status of private capital gains is being eroded: tax reform projects plead for an alignment of capital gains treatment for all sources of income. However, a systematic treatment of some basic problems of capital gains taxation such as inflation-adjustment is still lacking.

Keywords: German tax law, income tax law, corporate tax, business taxation, capital gains, capital gains taxation

Suggested Citation:

Schön, Wolfgang, Capital Gains Taxation in Germany (December 1, 2005). British Tax Review No. 6, pp. 620-627, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1551347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,726
RANK
188,584
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies