Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Cross-Listing on the Corporate Information Environment: Further Evidence

30 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2010

Abed Al-Nasser Abdallah

American University of Sharjah

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: February 11, 2010

Abstract

We explore the impact of cross-listing on the information environment of publicly traded companies. Compared to non-cross-listed companies, we find that cross-listed firms already have higher levels of information dissemination, as measured by the number of analyst, which increase after cross-listing. However, this increase does not continue after the third year of the post-cross listing period; this short period year-to-year increase in analyst following is robust for AMEX, NASDAQ, NYSE, LSE, and OTC, but not for PORTAL. Meanwhile, there is no change in the quantity of this information, as measured by analysts’ earnings forecasts, compared to non–cross-listed firms. Nonetheless, we find that the precision of analysts’ earnings forecasts increases during the first year prior to the cross-listing year, which provides cross-listed firms with an advantage over their non-cross-listed counterparts. The results are the same for all exchanges, except for OTC. Different from Lang et al. (2003), our results suggest that the event of cross-listing per see is what matters to firms, and not their commitment to increase the level of information disclosure. We are the first to produce such evidence, which contributes to the current debate on cross-listing, disclosure and investor protection.

Keywords: Cross-Listing, Disclosure, Investor Protection, Analyst Following, Analyst Forecast Error

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G18, G32

Suggested Citation:

Abdallah, Abed Al-Nasser and Pope, Peter F., The Impact of Cross-Listing on the Corporate Information Environment: Further Evidence (February 11, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1551643 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1551643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,920
RANK
265,571
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies