Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sourcing Profits for Hong Kong Tax Purposes: The Jurisprudence of the Court of Final Appeal

Bulletin for International Taxation, Vol. 62, p. 475, October 2008

6 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2010

Jefferson P. VanderWolk

Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP

Date Written: October 1, 2008

Abstract

This article examines the October 2007 judgment of the Court of Final Appeal in the ING Baring Securities case, and the court's jurisprudence on the source of profits for Hong Kong tax purposes. The article argues that the court's analysis and guidance in its decisions on the source question provide helpful clarification of the law, but do not deal comprehensively with the issues involved in determining the source of profits. Therefore, controversies over this issue will certainly continue to arise.

Keywords: Hong Kong, tax, source

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

VanderWolk, Jefferson Peck, Sourcing Profits for Hong Kong Tax Purposes: The Jurisprudence of the Court of Final Appeal (October 1, 2008). Bulletin for International Taxation, Vol. 62, p. 475, October 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1551783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,657
RANK
518,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies