Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Compliance in the Year of the Pig: The Practice of Goodwill Impairment Testing Among Large Hong Kong Firms During 2007

24 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2010

Tyrone M. Carlin

Southern Cross University

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Dzung Manh Tran

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 14, 2010

Abstract

Several studies have suggested that the adoption of IFRS can enhance the quality of financial reports, in turn improving their reliability and usefulness (Wyatt, 2005; Barth et al., 2008). However, such studies generally assume that the introduction of IFRS guarantees consistency and compliance in practice. Given that goodwill impairment testing under IFRS presents a technically challenging task (Hoogendoorn, 2006; Wines et al., 2007) that can materially impact the determination of economic profit, this study focuses on assessing the compliance quality of a large sample of Hong Kong firms that are mature IFRS adopters. By examining the detailed disclosures made by 264 large listed firms in 2007, three years after Hong Kong’s adoption of IFRS, an alarmingly high rate of non compliance with HKAS 36 still exists among these goodwill-intensive firms, casting doubts over the hypothesis that lax compliance is a characteristic associated solely with early adoption.

Keywords: Goodwill, Impairment, IFRS, HKAS 36, Hong Kong

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Carlin, Tyrone M. and Finch, Nigel and Tran, Dzung Manh, IFRS Compliance in the Year of the Pig: The Practice of Goodwill Impairment Testing Among Large Hong Kong Firms During 2007 (February 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1552703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1552703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
D Anantharaman
Has SFAS 142 Diminished the Reliability of Goodwill Writeoffs?, Working Paper, Columbia Business School Posted: 2007
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Batten , T Fetherston
Asia Pacific Fixed Income Markets Posted: 2002
A Briloff
Unaccountable Accounting -Games Accountants Play Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,863
RANK
200,911
4 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies