Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big4 Compliance with Changes to Audit Reporting Standard ASA2007-1: A Note

38 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2010

Chris Ikin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Neil L. Fargher

Australian National University (ANU)

Date Written: November 5, 2009

Abstract

Auditors have a valuable reputation for being quality providers of audit and assurance services. Recent changes to an Australian auditing standard (ASA 700 The Auditor’s Report on a General Purpose Financial Report) provided a rare opportunity to assess one aspect of auditor quality between Big4 auditors - compliance with new Auditing Standards. The mandated changes to ASA 700 were hurried into force, potentially catching less aware auditors off-guard.

We examined all auditor’s reports issued by the Sydney partners of the Big4 audit firms between 1 July 2007 and 29 May 2008 for compliance with the new standard. We find that 13% failed to comply with the amended provisions of ASA700. We also noted 18% using either confusing and/or inconsistent language to describe the IFRS compliant financial statements being audited. Furthermore, this aspect of audit quality is variable across the Big4 brand in Sydney.

While these results may be explainable in terms of the relative effectiveness of internal control systems the audit firms put in place to keep partners technically up to date with changes in regulations, it seem clear that the hasty introduction of new auditing standards is unlikely to produce timely and consistent compliance.

Keywords: Auditing standards, auditor quality, audit reports

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ikin, Chris and Zeff, Stephen A. and Fargher, Neil L., Big4 Compliance with Changes to Audit Reporting Standard ASA2007-1: A Note (November 5, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1552072 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1552072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 650 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Exposure Draft (ED1/07): Proposed Amendments to ASA700 The Auditor's
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (AUASB)
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (AUASB), 2007(b), Australian Auditing Standard ASA 2007-1 Amendments to Australian Auditing Standards
Media release: AUASB Announces Important Changes to Auditing Standards to Enhance Recognition of Compliance With IFRS by Australian Companies
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (AUASB)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,490
RANK
292,525
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies