Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Performance Explanations and Institutional Setting

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 40, No. 5, pp. 421-450, 2010

68 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2010 Last revised: 29 Jan 2011

Walter Aerts

University of Antwerp

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Date Written: December 1, 2010

Abstract

The aim of this study is to investigate whether country differences in the institutional setting for financial reporting affect the attributes of managers’ explanations of performance in management commentary reports. We include 172 listed companies from five industries (building materials, food processors, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and retail) in the United Kingdom, Australia, the USA and Canada in 2003. We find significant country differences in attributional properties of performance explanations in management commentary reports. The US and Canadian companies are generally less assertive and less defensive in causal explanations offered compared to their counterparts in the UK and Australia. The North American companies are also more extensive and formal in their explanations, relying more heavily on technical-accounting language. These tendencies are most pronounced in the USA, where the aggregate of private and public enforcement is greatest. Taken together, our evidence suggests that higher expected regulatory and litigation costs induce a more elaborative, but risk-averse explanatory stance that may well reduce the overall incremental value of the explanations offered.

Keywords: Management discussion and analysis (MD&A), Operating and Financial Review (OFR), regulation, enforcement, litigation, attributional statements

JEL Classification: M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Aerts, Walter and Tarca, Ann, Financial Performance Explanations and Institutional Setting (December 1, 2010). Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 40, No. 5, pp. 421-450, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1553723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
147 References
Asb
Accounting Standards Board (UK) Posted: 2003
W Aerts
On the use of accounting logic as an explanatory category in narrative accounting disclosures'. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 337 - 353 Posted: 1994
Crossref
W Aerts
Inertia in the attributional content of annual accounting narratives
European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 32 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: Impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes'. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 493 - 571 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,887
RANK
388,855
147 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies