Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Setting UK Standards on the Concept of Control: An Analysis of Lobbying Behaviour

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 40, 2010

41 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2010

Renata Isabel Stenka

Keele University - Keele Management School

Peter Taylor

Manchester Business School

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

The present study aims to contribute to an understanding of the complexity of lobbying activities within the accounting standard-setting process in the UK. The paper reports detailed content analysis of submission letters to four related exposure drafts (EDs). These preceded two accounting standards that set out the concept of control used to determine the scope of consolidation in the UK, except for reporting under international standards. Regulation on the concept of control provides rich patterns of lobbying behaviour due to its controversial nature and its significance to financial reporting. Our examination is conducted by dividing lobbyists into two categories, corporate and non-corporate, which are hypothesised (and demonstrated) to lobby differently. In order to test the significance of these differences we apply ANOVA techniques and univariate regression analysis. Corporate respondents are found to devote more attention to issues of specific applicability of the concept of control, whereas non-corporate respondents tend to devote more attention to issues of general applicability of this concept. A strong association between the issues raised by corporate respondents and their line of business is revealed. Both categories of lobbyists are found to advance conceptually-based arguments more often than economic consequences-based or combined arguments. However, when economic consequences-based arguments are used, they come exclusively from the corporate category of respondents.

Keywords: Consolidated financial statements, accounting standards, lobbying

JEL Classification: M47

Suggested Citation:

Stenka, Renata Isabel and Taylor, Peter, Setting UK Standards on the Concept of Control: An Analysis of Lobbying Behaviour (2010). Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 40, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1554905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
S Archer
On the Methodology of a Conceptual Framework for Financial Accounting, Part I: A Historical and Jurisprudential Analysis
Accounting, Business and Financial History , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 199 - 228 Posted: 1992
Crossref
V Beattie , M Jones
The Use and Abuse of Graphs in Annual Reports: Theoretical Framework and Empirical Study'. Accounting and Business Research , volume 22 , p. 291 - 303 Posted: 1992
Crossref
V Beattie , M Jones
A Comparative Study of the Use of Financial Graphs in the Corporate Annual Reports of Major US and UK Companies'
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 68 Posted: 1997
Crossref
P Bircher
The Adoption of Consolidated Accounting in Great Britain
Accounting and Business Research , volume 19 , issue 73 , p. 3 - 13 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,883
RANK
164,802
2 Citations
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Small GAAP: A Large Jump for the IASB

By Carolyn J. Cordery and Rachel F. Baskerville

The Role of Expectancy Theory and Observed Constituency Response Levels to Exposure Drafts in Accounting Standard-Setting in New Zealand

By Rachel F. Baskerville

Practitioners’ Participation in the Accounting Standard-Setting Process

By Sylvain Durocher and Anne Fortin

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies