Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Firm Market Value on Audit Partner Tenure and Firm Profitability

Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 115-120, 2009

6 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2010

Mao-Chang Wang

Chinese Culture University

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

This study investigates the effects audit partner tenure and firm profitability on the market value of the firm. This study extends Ohlson’s model by examining audit partner tenure, and the interaction between residual earnings per share and audit partner tenure on firm value. This issue is particularly important in light of regulations requiring audit partner rotation in the United States, Taiwan and other countries. The model is tested using large internationally listed companies in Taiwan. The findings on average do not support audit partner rotation in Taiwan.

Keywords: Firm’s Valuation, Audit Partner Tenure, Profitability, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Mao-Chang, The Effects of Firm Market Value on Audit Partner Tenure and Firm Profitability (2009). Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 115-120, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1555082
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
AICPA). (1978) The Commission on Audit Partners' Responsibilities: Report, Conclusions and Recommendations
B Arrunada , C Paz-Ares
Mandatory rotation of firm audit partners: a critical examination
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 17 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 1997
Crossref
D C Burgstahler , I D Dichev
Earnings, Adaptation and Equity Value
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , p. 187 - 215 Posted: 1997
P Carey , R Simnett
Audit partner tenure and audit quality
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 653 - 676 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,816
RANK
268,746
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies