Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impairment of Assets: A Tax Accounting Interface

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 14-19, June 2009

10 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2010

Les Nethercott

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tony Anamourlis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The relationship between taxation law and accounting has been a complicated one in recent years. The decision of the Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has lent a more complex dimension to this interface. There are two important areas of taxation law where the interface of tax and accounting principles arise. They concern the issues of Thin Capitalisation and Consolidations. However, of particular concern in both of these areas is the treatment of intangible assets and their impairment. This paper seeks to examine these issues and some of the consequences of recent legislative amendments to the tax law and the adoption of IFRS.

Keywords: taxation, IFRS, intangible assets, impairment

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nethercott, Les and Anamourlis, Tony, Impairment of Assets: A Tax Accounting Interface. Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 14-19, June 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1555463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
of Assets: A Tax Accounting Interface
M Tyrone , Nigel Carlin , Finch
Goodwill Impairment Testing Under IFRS -A False Impossible Shore?
Working Paper Series Posted: 2008-07-24
M Tyrone , Nigel Carlin , Finch
Early Impressions of Australia's Brave New World of Goodwill Impairment
Working Paper Series Posted: 2007-01
AASB 136 -Impairment of Assets
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
508
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,899
RANK
127,222
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies