Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Asymmetries and the Value-Relevance of Cash Flow and Accounting Figures – Empirical Analysis and Implications for Managerial Accounting

Problems and Perspectives in Management, Vol. 8, No. 2, 2010

CEFS Working Paper 08-2010

25 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2010 Last revised: 30 Dec 2010

Marc Steffen Rapp

University of Marburg - School of Business & Economics; University of Marburg - Marburg Centre for Institutional Economics (MACIE); Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 2, 2010

Abstract

While some of the modern performance measures used in managerial accounting rely on cash flow based figures others try to take advantage of the information content of accounting figures. However, whether the additional information content in the accrual components of earnings improves the internal performance measurement is an open empirical question. To shed light on this question, I examine the correlation between operating cash flows and earnings with firm’s total shareholder returns. Using fixed firm effects regression methods for a large sample of German listed firms covering some 5,000 firm years, the analysis shows that generally operating cash flow and earnings are both positively correlated with total shareholder return. However, with increasing information asymmetry earnings become less correlated with the firm’s stock market performance and operating cash flows dominate earnings in explaining total shareholder return (and vice versa). These results suggest that, the information content of accounting figures is only relevant in settings characterized by low information asymmetries and, thus, there is no one-size-fits-all performance measure for managerial accounting purposes.

Keywords: Accounting figures, performance measures, total shareholder return, managerial accounting

JEL Classification: G32, M21, M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Rapp, Marc Steffen, Information Asymmetries and the Value-Relevance of Cash Flow and Accounting Figures – Empirical Analysis and Implications for Managerial Accounting (April 2, 2010). Problems and Perspectives in Management, Vol. 8, No. 2, 2010, CEFS Working Paper 08-2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1555652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1555652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
G Athanassakos
Value-based management, EVA and stock price performance in Canada
Journal of Management Decision , volume 45 , issue 9 , p. 1397 - 1411 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
G C Biddle , M ; R , J S Bowen , Wallace
Evidence on EVA
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 69 - 79 Posted: 1999
Crossref
G C Biddle , M ; R , J S Bowen , Wallace
Does EVA ® beat earnings: Evidence on the association with stock returns and firm values
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 301 - 336 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,599
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,734
RANK
26,382
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Do Managers Perform Better Under Eva Bonus Schemes?

By Stephen S. Riceman, Steven F. Cahan, ...

Eva and the Controllability-Congruence Trade-Off: An Empirical Investigation

By Jean-pierre Ponssard and Francois Larmande

Eva Compensation Schemes and Controllability Issues: An Empirical Investigation

By Jean Pierre Ponssard and Francois Larmande

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies