Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Analysis of Tax Policies Applicable in the New and Original EU Member-States

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 91-104, 2009

14 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2010

Květa Kubátová

University of Economics, Prague; Institute of Finance and Administration

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to compare the tax policies of the twelve new countries of the European Union with those of the existing fifteen members. These countries have sometimes been criticized because of their tax-favoring policies especially lower rates and revenues and various tax exceptions, namely, for capital tax. Critical comments have even been made about the establishment of the 'flat tax' in some of these countries. The indicators monitored in this comparison are the tax quota, the tax mix and the tax rates of corporations, as the taxes are potentially most affected by tax competition. Moreover, the focus is on the effective taxation of capital, labor and consumption, measured by 'implicit tax rates.' The heteroscedastic and pair t-tests are used as the analysis tools, so that the statistical significance of the differences between the average values of the two compared groups can be tested. The tests confirmed the hypothesis of the non-statistically significant differences in the size of some of the pairs of researched averages. This paper originated as part of the projects financed by the Czech Science Foundation 'New Approaches to the Optimising Budgetary and Fiscal Policy with the Emphasis on Fiscal Discipline”' (Project No. 402/08/1134) and 'The Analysis of the Systems of Delivering Public Services, and on the Impact of the Respective Solution on the Effectiveness of Public Expenditure' (Project No. 402/05/2644).

JEL Classification: H20

Suggested Citation:

Kubátová, Květa, Comparative Analysis of Tax Policies Applicable in the New and Original EU Member-States (2009). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 91-104, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1555192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Katinka Barysch
Is Tax Competition Bad? Centre for European Reform BULLETIN , volume 37 Posted: 2004-09
Malgorzata -Markiewicz Jakubiak , Malgorzata
Capital mobility and Tax Competition between Old and New EU Member countries. Cerge-EI 2006 Regional Research competition. 30 Posted: 2007-06
Luigi - Bernardi , Mark Chandler
Main Tax Policy Issues
Tax Systems and Tax Reforms in New EU Members , p. 31 - 59
Luca Gaudullia
An Overview of Taxation
Tax Systems and Tax Reforms in New EU Members , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,209
RANK
623,124
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies