Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determining Factors of Internet Financial Reporting in Indonesia

Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 87-99, 2009

13 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2010

Luciana Spica Almilia

Perbanas School of Business Surabaya - Indonesia

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

Internet Financial Reporting (IFR) is voluntary in nature. With no specific regulations for IFR, there is a disparity of IFR practices among companies. Some companies disclose only partial financial statements using a low level of technology, while others disclose full sets of financial reports using sophisticated web technologies. The purpose of this study is to measure the quality of Internet Financial Reporting of public firms on the Jakarta Stock Exchange. An index was developed to measure overall internet reporting. In addition, financial variables that affect Internet Financial Reporting (IFR) among Indonesia Stock Exchange companies are identified. The findings show that the nature of IFR disclosure varies considerably across the sample firms. Firm size and return on equity are identified as determining factors of internet financial reporting in Indonesia.

Keywords: Internet Financial Reporting, Website, Traditional Financial Reporting, Technology

JEL Classification: G30, G33, G41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Almilia, Luciana Spica, Determining Factors of Internet Financial Reporting in Indonesia (2009). Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 87-99, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1555064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Omneya H Abdelsalam , M Stephanie , Donna L Bryant , Street
An Examination of the Comprehensiveness of Corporate Internet Reporting Provided by London-Listed Companies
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Andreas Andrikopoulos , Nikolaos Diakidis , Nikolaos Diakidis
Financial Reporting Practices on the Internet: The Case of Companies Listed in the Cyprus Stock Exchange
Pages: 22 Posted: 10 Jul 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Luciana Almilia , Sasongko Spica , Budi
Corporate Internet Reporting of Banking Industry and LQ45 Firms: An Indonesia Example. Proceeding The 1 st Parahyangan International Accounting & Business Conference Posted: 2008
R Ball
International Accounting Policy Forum
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,690
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,107
RANK
24,191
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies