Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Top Management Compensation, Earnings Management and Default Risk: Insights from the Chinese Stock Market

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 31-46, 2009

16 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2010

Wei Ting

Chung Yuan Christian University

Sin-Hui Yen

Tamkang University - Department of Accounting

Sheng-Shih Huang

Tamkang University

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

China has sustained a rapid rate of economic growth and absorbed a great deal of foreign investment over the past decades. However, the laws pertaining to business in China have not kept up with China’s market growth. For this reason, investors in the Chinese stock market must assess associated risks. We set out in this study to examine the relationships that exist between default risk, earnings management, and top management compensation of publicly-listed companies in the Chinese stock market, which is now considered the most important emerging market. The results reveal a greater likelihood of default amongst larger discretionary accruals and lower top management compensation. In addition to studying the relationships which exist in the full sample, we also divide the sample into two sub-groups, based upon the signs of discretionary accruals, to investigate the likelihood of default. We find higher default potential amongst firms only falling into the category of positive discretionary accruals.

JEL Classification: G14, G34, G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ting, Wei and Yen, Sin-Hui and Huang, Sheng-Shih, Top Management Compensation, Earnings Management and Default Risk: Insights from the Chinese Stock Market (2009). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 31-46, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1555228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
J M Abowd
Does Performance-Based Managerial Compensation Affect Corporation Performance? Industrial and Labor Relations Review , volume 43 , p. 52 - 73 Posted: 1990
J Aharony , C J Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Crossref
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, Finance, and Economic Growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminate Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,446
RANK
187,425
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies