Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Value Relevance of Finance's Cash Flow and Accounting's Accruals: Empirical Evidence from Egypt

Ain Shams University's Journal of Economic Studies, Vol. 3, pp. 1-22, 2009

22 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2010

Shamel Mohamed Elhamawy

Ain Shams University

Wesam Mohamed Habib

King Faisal University

Abstract

We adhere to the value relevance approach to accounting capital markets research in order to investigate the accounting information environment in Egypt. Our main objective is to learn of the set of accounting information that can be considered value relevant in the Egyptian equity market. Particularly, we test the claim frequently encountered in the authoritative finance literature (e.g., Brealey and Myers, 2002; Copeland, Weston, and Shastri, 2005) that, accounting accruals are noisy and should not matter in equity valuation since the main concern is with expectations of future cash flows. However, unlike prior literature that investigates the same claim based exclusively on Ohlson's (1995) unbiased accounting model or one of its derivatives that allow for accounting conservatism such as (Ohlson, 1999) (e.g., Barth, Beaver, Hand, and Landsman, 1999), we design the tests based on Pope and Wang's (2005) residual income specification. Pope and Wang's basic equity value specification assumes mainly clean surplus accounting along with Modigliani and Miller's (1961) dividend policy irrelevance. Unlike Ohlson's, Pope and Wang's doesn't assume no-arbitrage pricing or specific linear abnormal earnings dynamics structure. Pope and Wang's specification also explicitly links the information role of accounting measures in valuation to their informational roles in forecasting abnormal earnings. Ultimately, the analysis based on Pope and Wang's specification allows us to [1] report on the explanatory power of a typical residual income valuation model in Egypt, [2] test the constraint that, both accounting accruals and cash flow aggregate in valuation (and in forecasting abnormal earnings), [3] test if the summary accounting measures in Egypt accurately replicate the economic characteristics of the underlying constructs they purport to be measuring, and [4] report a parameter representing the extent of accounting conservatism in the spirit of (Feltham and Ohlson, 1995). Our analysis in this fashion extends the value relevance literature by estimating Pope and Wang's specification employing data from the Egyptian stock market. As opposed to developed markets, it is far less obvious to what extent Egyptian accounting information is replicated in equity values. It is not also clear in Egypt what kind of accounting information should be employed for purposes of valuation and fundamental analysis.

Keywords: value relevance, valuation, accounting accruals, cash flow

JEL Classification: M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Elhamawy, Shamel Mohamed and Habib, Wesam Mohamed, On the Value Relevance of Finance's Cash Flow and Accounting's Accruals: Empirical Evidence from Egypt. Ain Shams University's Journal of Economic Studies, Vol. 3, pp. 1-22, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1558768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Is the US stock market myopic?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 221 - 242 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Abel , A Dixit , J Eberly , R Pindyck
Options, the value of capital and investment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 111 , p. 753 - 777 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Aboody , B Lev
The value-relevance of intangibles: the case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research Supplement , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring relevance in a (possibly) inefficient market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
663
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,332
RANK
90,776
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies