Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IAS 39 and the Practice of Loan Loss Provisioning Throughout Australasia

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 13-19, 2009

11 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2010

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Date Written: February, 26 2010

Abstract

This paper examines the response of a sample of Asian banks to the recognition of loan loss provisions before, during and after the Global Financial Crises. Drawing on empirical data from 2006 through 2009, this paper focuses on the level of loan loss provisioning undertaken by the banks, with a view to generating insights into the effectiveness of the approach to loan impairment and provisioning prescribed by IAS 39 – Financial Instruments: Measurement and Recognition. Given that the focus of impairment decision making under IAS 39 is historically oriented rather than future oriented, we argue this may result in the diminution in the decision usefulness of the content of bank financial statements in the face of imminent, though not yet manifested economic distress. Despite mounting evidence that substantial portions of the globe’s financial and economic fabric lay in a state of severe distress, our analysis of the financial disclosures of the sample of Asian banks shows a picture at odds with this larger reality. We argue that this response is shaped by the requirements of the newly introduced accounting standard and that a broadening of the legitimate sources of evidence upon which loan impairment recognition decisions may be based pursuant to IAS 39 should be a matter of priority.

Keywords: Impairment, Loan loss provision, Banking, IFRS

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Finch, Nigel, IAS 39 and the Practice of Loan Loss Provisioning Throughout Australasia (February, 26 2010). Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 13-19, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1560227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: A Re-Examination of Capital Management, Earnings Management and Signalling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Altman , B Pasternack
Defaults and Returns in the High Yield Bond Market: The Year 2005 in Review and Market Outlook
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 29 Posted: 2006
Crossref
V Beattie , S Chamberlain , J Magliolo
Managing Financial Reports of Commercial Banks: The Influence of Taxes, Regulatory Capital and Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 231 - 261 Posted: 1995
C Borio , P Lowe
To Provision or Not to Provision Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
635
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,890
RANK
95,963
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies