Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Downgrades During Financial Distress When the Market is Rational

40 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2010

Illoong Kwon

Seoul National University

Jing Pan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 2010

Abstract

This paper provides both theoretical and empirical analyses of the relationship between firms' performance and auditor change. The theoretical analysis focuses on the auditor's role as a commitment device not to overstate firms' earnings. We show that even when the investors are fully rational and firms cannot gain from overstatement, firms are more likely to switch to a lower quality auditor during financial distress. This tendency is stronger when firms are less myopic. This paper also discusses empirical evidence from U.S. data, and presents new evidence based on Chinese data.

Keywords: Auditor Switch, Rational Expectation, State Ownership

JEL Classification: L14, L84, M4

Suggested Citation:

Kwon, Illoong and Pan, Jing, Auditor Downgrades During Financial Distress When the Market is Rational (February 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1565833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1565833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A C Allen
The Effect of Large-Firms Audits on Municipal Bond Rating Decisions
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 13 , p. 115 - 125 Posted: 1994
R J Balvers , B Mcdonald , R E Miller
Underpricing of New Issues and the Choice of Auditors as a Signal of Investment Banker Reputation
The Accounting Review , volume 63 , p. 605 - 622 Posted: 1988
Keith Bockus , Frank Gigler
A Theory of Auditor Resignation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 191 - 208 Posted: 1998
Crossref
C Chow , S Rice
Qualified Audit Opinions and Auditor Switching
The Accounting Review , volume 57 , p. 326 - 335 Posted: 1982
Load more
1 Citations
Dorine Mattar , Rim El Khoury , Melissa Chaanine
Sustainable Finance, Digitalization and the Role of Technology
, volume 487 , p. 161 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,996
RANK
407,466
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Causes and Consequences of Audit Shopping: An Analysis of Auditor Opinions, Earnings Management, and Auditor Changes

By Wallace N. Davidson, Pornsit Jiraporn, ...

Auditors and Corporate Governance: Evidence from the Public Sector

By Mark Schelker

Audit Partner Rotation, Earnings Quality and Earnings Conservatism

By Jane Hamilton, Caitlin M. S. Ruddock, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies