Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality and the Adoption of IFRS-Based Accounting Standards: Evidence from an Emerging Market

32 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2010 Last revised: 21 Aug 2011

Wan Adibah Wan Ismail

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) - Faculty of Accountancy

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Keitha L. Dunstan

Bond University - School of Business

Date Written: March 7, 2010

Abstract

This study investigates the differences in earnings quality of Malaysian companies after the adoption of IFRS-based accounting standards named FRS. We hypothesize that under the new set of accounting standards, the quality of earnings reported by these companies is relatively higher. We measure earnings quality using two different proxies; the absolute value of abnormal accruals and the value relevance of earnings. Using 4010 observations over a three-year period before and a three-year period after the adoption of the new set of accounting standards, our study finds that the adoption of FRS is relatively related to higher reported earnings quality. Specifically, the results shows that (1) the absolute value of abnormal accrual is significantly lower and (2) the value-relevance of firms earnings is significantly higher, after the adoption of the new set of accounting standards.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Accounting Standards, IFRS, Financial Reporting, Malaysia

JEL Classification: M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Wan Ismail, Wan Adibah and van Zijl, Tony and Dunstan, Keitha L., Earnings Quality and the Adoption of IFRS-Based Accounting Standards: Evidence from an Emerging Market (March 7, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1566634 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1566634
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B.-H Bao , D.-H Bao
Income smoothing, earnings quality and firm valuation
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 31 , issue 9 , p. 1525 - 1557 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: Another view
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,437
RANK
29,026
13 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies