Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
User Oriented IFRS Education in Introductory Accounting at U.S. Academic Institutions: Current Status and Influencing Factors

Issues in Accounting Education, Vol. 26, No. 4, pp. 725-750, 2011

Posted: 10 Mar 2010 Last revised: 29 Nov 2011

Hong Zhu

Loyola University Maryland

Kevin T. Rich

Marquette University - Department of Accounting

Alfred Michenzi

Loyola University Maryland

Jason Cherubini

Goucher College; Loyola University Maryland - The Joseph A. Sellinger, S.J. School of Business and Management

Date Written: November 26, 2010

Abstract

We document the current state of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) education in introductory accounting courses, and model the decision by introductory accounting educators to integrate IFRS into their courses. Using a survey of educators conducted during Fall 2009, we find that although a majority of respondents believe IFRS material is important for non-accounting business majors, 56 percent spent less than 30 minutes per term covering IFRS. Our results suggest that educators are more likely to extensively cover IFRS topics when they perceive U.S. GAAP/IFRS convergence to be more certain and when they have colleagues engaged in teaching IFRS, and less likely when they assess IFRS teaching materials to be inadequate. Overall, we provide evidence regarding the role of business schools’ curricula in educating future investors on the basics of IFRS. This is of interest to the SEC, in evaluating whether to mandate IFRS for U.S. issuers, as well as the faculty members, departments, or programs looking to better understand the conditions that facilitate user-oriented IFRS coverage in the classroom.

JEL Classification: M44, A20

Suggested Citation:

Zhu, Hong and Rich, Kevin T. and Michenzi, Alfred and Cherubini, Jason, User Oriented IFRS Education in Introductory Accounting at U.S. Academic Institutions: Current Status and Influencing Factors (November 26, 2010). Issues in Accounting Education, Vol. 26, No. 4, pp. 725-750, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1567670
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,898
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies