Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Country Evidence on the Importance of Big Four Auditors to Equity Pricing: The Mediating Role of Legal Institutions

Accounting, Organizations and Society

70 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2010 Last revised: 7 Mar 2023

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

We report large sample evidence on the importance of auditor choice to the ex ante cost of capital for public firms from 37 countries. In regressions that control for country, industry, and year fixed effects as well as other firm-level determinants, we find that corporate equity financing worldwide is cheaper when Big Four auditors monitor the financial reporting process, although this relation is weaker outside the U.S. where the implicit insurance coverage that auditors afford investors is much lower. Economically, our coefficient estimates imply that U.S. and non-U.S. public firms’ cost of equity capital falls by, on average, 71 and 26 basis points, respectively, in the presence of a Big Four auditor. We also provide empirical support for the predictions that the equity pricing role of Big Four auditors is stronger in countries with better institutions governing investor protection and disclosure standards.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Corporate Governance, Cost of Equity

JEL Classification: G34, G32

Suggested Citation:

El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Cross-Country Evidence on the Importance of Big Four Auditors to Equity Pricing: The Mediating Role of Legal Institutions (December 1, 2014). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1567524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1567524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
122 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
D Anderson , J R Francis , D J Stokes
Auditing, directorships and the demand for monitoring
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 12 , p. 353 - 375 Posted: 1993
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
A A Arens , J L Loebbecke
Auditing: An Integrated Approach Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,055
RANK
135,530
3 Citations
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies