Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Operating-Financing Distinction in Financial Reporting

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2010

Richard Barker

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Date Written: March 10, 2010

Abstract

This paper addresses an important issue of presentation in the financial statements, namely the distinction between, on the one hand, the obligations and associated flows arising from the provision of finance to an entity (‘financing’) and, on the other hand, all other activities of the entity (‘operating’). This operating-financing distinction has been well-established in the finance literature since Miller-Modigliani (1958, 1961) and is ubiquitous and of considerable importance in practice in financial markets (e.g. Koller et al, 2005, CFA Institute, 2005, Penman, 2006). Yet accounting standards are under-developed in this area, and there are gaps and inconsistencies in both IFRS and US GAAP. Drawing upon the distinction between nature and function in the presentation of financial statement information, the contributions of the paper are, first, to enhance our theoretical understanding of the operating-financing distinction, which is currently defined in different and unreconciled ways in the literature, and, second, to propose a practical basis for accounting standard-setters to determine requirements for the reporting of financing activity in the financial statements.

Keywords: IFRS, Operating, Financing, Debt, Financial Statement Presentation

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Barker, Richard, The Operating-Financing Distinction in Financial Reporting (March 10, 2010). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1568011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Barker
Reporting Financial Performance. Accounting Horizons , volume 18 , p. 157 - 172 Posted: 2004
W H Beaver , J Demski
The Nature of Income Measurement
Accounting Review , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 46 Posted: 1979
Cfa Institute
A Comprehensive Business Reporting Model: Financial Reporting for Investors Posted: 2005
M Defond , C Park
Smoothing income in anticipation of future earnings
Journalof Accounting and Economics , volume 23 , p. 115 - 139 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
804
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,529
RANK
70,668
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies