Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cracking the Conjugal Myths: What Does it Mean for the Attribution Rules?

Canadian Tax Journal, Vol.50, No.3, pp. 1031-1039, 2001

9 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2010

Lisa Philipps

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Date Written: 2002

Abstract

The Law Commission of Canada deserves praise for a report that is groundbreaking in both its substantive vision and its methodological approach to tax policy analysis. The report’s core argument is that the legal treatment of close adult relationships should depend less on whether they are conjugal in nature and more on their functional relevance to the policy objectives of particular legal regimes. Applying this principle to the Income Tax Act, the report criticizes the tendency in tax law to assume that conjugal partners share all their income, expenses, and property while ignoring or discounting the degree of economic interdependence that exists in many other types of close relationships between adults. The report’s recommendations would de-emphasize conjugality to make the income tax more individually focused overall and, where it does take relationships into account, more pluralistic with regard to the form of those relationships.

Suggested Citation:

Philipps, Lisa, Cracking the Conjugal Myths: What Does it Mean for the Attribution Rules? (2002). Canadian Tax Journal, Vol.50, No.3, pp. 1031-1039, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1568885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Neuman V. The , Queen
, p. 98 - 6297
Crossref
Kathleen A Lahey
The Benefit/Penalty Unit in Income Tax Policy: Diversity and Reform (Ottawa: Law Commission of Canada , p. 1 - 2 Posted: 2000-09
Thomas Remarks , White
Canada, House of Commons, Debates Posted: 1917-08-03
Crossref
Lahey
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,540
RANK
778,997
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies