Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Multi-Nationality on the Precision of Management Earnings Forecasts

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Performance Evaluation, Vol. 4, No. 6, pp. 572-588, 2007

17 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2010

Bruce Runyan

School of Accountancy, Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business, University of Missouri

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between a firm’s degree of multi-nationality and its managers’ earnings forecasts. Firms with a high degree of multi-nationality are subject to greater uncertainty regarding earnings forecasts due to the additional risk resulting from the more complex multinational environment. Prior research demonstrates that firms that fail to meet or beat market expectations experience disproportionate market losses at earnings announcement dates. The complexities and greater uncertainty resulting from higher levels of multi-nationality are expected to be negatively associated with management earnings forecast precision. Results indicate that precision of management earnings forecasts is significantly negatively related to multi-nationality (foreign sales/total sales and the number of geographic segments). These findings should be of interest to investors, analysts, and other stakeholders who make decisions based on management earnings forecasts. Findings should also be of interest to those interested in how multi-nationality affects business in general.

Keywords: management earnings forecasts, multinationality, financial reporting, precision

JEL Classification: F23, G15, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Runyan, Bruce and Smith, Murphy, The Effect of Multi-Nationality on the Precision of Management Earnings Forecasts (2007). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Performance Evaluation, Vol. 4, No. 6, pp. 572-588, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1568348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
B Ajinkya , M Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts as symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
Crossref
R Atiase , S Supattarakul , S Tse
Price reactions to management earnings forecasts: the incremental effect of managements' prior forecasting reputation
Proceedings of the American Accounting Association Annual Meeting Posted: 2007-08
S P Baginski
Intraindustry information transfers associated with management forecast
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 196 - 217 Posted: 1987
Crossref
S P Baginski , J M Hassell
The market interpretation of management earnings forecasts as a predictor of subsequent financial analyst forecast revision
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 190 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,950
RANK
499,164
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies