Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Stimulus and Investment in Colombia

25 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2010

Arturo José Galindo

Inter-American Development Bank

Marcela Meléndez

Econ Estudio

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 10, 2010

Abstract

We use a yearly dataset of plant level investment in Colombian firms during the period 1997 to 2007, to assess the impact of a tax incentive for firms that invest in fixed assets implemented in 2004. We find that there is a positive and statistically significant correlation between the boom observed in investment and the adoption of the tax policy. However the correlation vanishes when we control for year specific effects. This result is robust to changes in the empirical specification, changes in estimation techniques, the inclusion of additional controls, and changes in the data set among others. Overall we conclude that the analyzed tax stimulus was ineffective to promote investment in Colombia.

Keywords: Taxes, Investment, Colombia

JEL Classification: E22, H2, O54

Suggested Citation:

Galindo, Arturo José and Meléndez, Marcela, Corporate Tax Stimulus and Investment in Colombia (March 10, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1568144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1568144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Robert Barro
Economic Growth in a Cross Section of Countries
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 106 , issue 2 , p. 407 - 443 Posted: 1991
Crossref
William Baumol , Robert Litan , Carl Schramm
Good Capitalism, Bad Capitalism, and the Economics of Growth and Prosperity Posted: 2007
Robert Chirinko
Business Fixed Investment Spending, Modeling Strategies, Empirical Results, and Policy Implications
Journal of Economic Literature , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 1993
Optimización de los instrumentos de desarrollo empresarial
CONPES Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,640
RANK
184,099
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies