Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Reputation and Earnings Management: International Evidence from the Banking Industry

Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 34, No. 10, 2010

40 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2010 Last revised: 1 Feb 2012

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: January 1, 2010

Abstract

We examine the relation between auditor reputation and earnings management in banks using a sample of banks from 29 countries. In particular, we examine the implications of two aspects of auditor reputation, auditor type and auditor industry specialization, for earnings management in banks. We find that both auditor type and auditor industry specialization moderate benchmark-beating (loss-avoidance and just-meeting-or-beating prior year’s earnings) behavior in banks. However, we find that once auditor type and auditor industry specialization are included in the same tests, only auditor industry specialization has a significant impact on constraining benchmark-beating behavior. In tests related to income-increasing abnormal loan loss provisions, we find in separate tests that both auditor type and auditor expertise constrain income-increasing earnings management. Again, in joint tests, only auditor industry expertise has a significant impact on constraining income-increasing earnings management.

Keywords: Auditor reputation, Auditor expertise, Earnings Management, Earnings Benchmarks, Loan loss provisions

JEL Classification: G14, G21, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lim, Chee Yeow and Lobo, Gerald J., Auditor Reputation and Earnings Management: International Evidence from the Banking Industry (January 1, 2010). Journal of Banking and Finance, Vol. 34, No. 10, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1568866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
B Adams , K A Carow , T Perry
Earnings management and initial public offerings: The case of the depository industry
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , p. 2363 - 2372 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D M Autore , R S Billingsley , M I Schneller
Information uncertainty and auditor reputation
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , p. 183 - 192 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Aicpa
Large Firm PCAOB Inspection Deficiency Analysis Posted: 2006
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
22 Citations
Azira Abdul Adzis , David W.L. Tripe , Paul Dunmore
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Income Smoothing Activities of Banks: Evidence from Australia and New Zealand Commercial Banks
Finance and Corporate Governance Conference 2011 Paper · 22 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2010 · Last revised: 29 Apr 2018 · Downloads: 374
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Justin Y. Jin , Kiridaran Kanagaretnam , Gerald J. Lobo
Unintended Consequences of the Increased Asset Threshold for FDICIA Internal Controls: Evidence from US Private Banks
46 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2012 · Downloads: 68
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Carolyn M. Callahan , Gary F. Peters , Joseph Zhang
Debt Contract Strictness and Auditor Specialization
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 46, Issue 5-6, pp. 686-711, 2019 · 26 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2020 · Downloads: 8
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dr. Despoina I. Ntaikou, Postdoc c. , Georgios Vousinas , Dimitris Kenourgios
The Expected Impact of IFRS 9 on the Greek Banking System’s Financial Performance: Theoretical Considerations and Insights
30 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 27 May 2021 · Downloads: 439
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,407
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,129
RANK
31,891
22 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Déjà Vu All Over Again: The Causes of U.S. Commercial Bank Failures This Time Around

By Rebel A. Cole and Lawrence J. White

Financial Crises and Bank Failures: A Review of Prediction Methods

By Yuliya Demyanyk and Iftekhar Hasan

Financial Crises and Bank Failures: A Review of Prediction Methods

By Yuliya Demyanyk and Iftekhar Hasan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies