Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Islamic Banking and the Credit Crunch

17 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2010

Mahmoud S. Dahduli

Bangor Business School

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects that the credit crunch has had on the normal differences of Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) Islamic banks relative to their peers for the period 2000 - 2008. Using the Two-sample t-test with unequal variances, nine ratios for 76 banks are studied to compare measures of liquidity, credit risk, profitability, and efficiency. It suggests that even though conventional banks were statistically more profitable and efficient with superior liquidity risk status during normal economic circumstances, it has been evident that the credit crunch has brought them at par with Islamic banks recording better profitability figures, while they have increased their superiority in terms of credit risk.

Keywords: Credit Crunch, Banks, Comparative performance, GCC, Islamic Banking

JEL Classification: G01, G20, G21, Y40

Suggested Citation:

Dahduli, Mahmoud S., Islamic Banking and the Credit Crunch (September 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1570613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1570613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
O&quot;connor
has used t-test to compare between market adjusted and unadjusted stock rate of returns before taking it further to explain how ratios could be used in predicting future rates of returns Posted: 1973
Libby
has also followed that route in a study of Accounting Ratios predicting failures Posted: 1975
; Havrylchyk , Isik , ; ) Hassan , Sathye
has also used the parametric t-test in measuring if foreign and domestic Polish banks efficiency comes from the same population where he rejected the null hypothesis. At times, Ratios t-testing was the primary methodology for many Posted: 1981
Total observations in the study would be preliminary 684 for that period
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
677
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,151
RANK
88,318
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies