Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Time of Gift for Duty Purposes - Date in Gift Statement

Recent Law, pp. 182-183, 1983

1 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2010

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: 1983

Abstract

The question in Sanders v Commissioner of Inland Revenue (1982) 5 NZTC 61,380 was whether two gifts, seemingly made in different years, were actually given within twelve months of each other and were thus liable for gift duty. The court applied the rule that a gift is complete when the donor has done everything that is necessary to complete the transfer of property to the donee. In this case it was found that the two gifts were within twelve months of each other and the Commissioner was right to charge gift duty.

Keywords: Gift Duty, Estate and Gift Duties Act 1968

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, Time of Gift for Duty Purposes - Date in Gift Statement (1983). Recent Law, pp. 182-183, 1983, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1570847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,260
RANK
597,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies