Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax on Capital Gains from the Sale of Land - Inflation Relevance

Recent Law, pp. 338-340, 1983

2 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2010

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: 1983

Abstract

The objector in Anzamco Ltd v Commissioner of Inland Revenue (1983) 6 NZTC 61,522 was a company that had bought and developed a farm and sold it at a significantly higher price. The Commissioner taxed the profits under paragraphs 67(4)(a) and (e) of the Income Tax Act 1976. The court allowed the taxpayer’s objection under paragraph (a), which taxes profits when land is purchased with the intention of sale. It upheld the Commissioner under paragraph (e), which taxes profits from the sale of land where an “undertaking or scheme … involve[ed] the development … of that land” and the scheme was commenced within ten years of acquisition.

The rules remain the same under the Income Tax Act 2007. In effect, therefore, wherever a taxpayer a farm or other land and starts a development scheme within ten years, and later sells the land the total profits are taxable, no matter how long he has held the land. In practice, this provision is rarely enforced.

Keywords: Income Tax Act 1976, Profits from Land Sales, Capital Gains

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, Income Tax on Capital Gains from the Sale of Land - Inflation Relevance (1983). Recent Law, pp. 338-340, 1983, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1570849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,291
RANK
724,701
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies