Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Arrangements to Avoid Income Tax – Farming Trusts and Partnerships

Recent Law, p. 215-217, 1983

2 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2010

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: 1983

Abstract

Section 99 of the Income Tax Act 1976 provides that agreements purporting to alter the incidence of tax shall be void against the Commissioner for tax purposes. Tayles & Tayles v Commissioner of Inland Revenue [1982] 2 NZLR 726 involved a complex arrangement of trusts and partnerships. The outcome was to shift income from the taxpayers to their family trusts. The Court of Appeal held that section 99 applied. Section 99 was later renumbered as section BG1 of the Income Tax Act 2007.

Keywords: Avoidance, Trust, Income Tax Act 1976, General Anti-Avoidance Rule

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, Arrangements to Avoid Income Tax – Farming Trusts and Partnerships (1983). Recent Law, p. 215-217, 1983, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1570848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,315
RANK
747,753
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies