Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax – Penalties for Failure to Forward PAYE

Recent Law, p. 60, 1984

2 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2010

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: 1984

Abstract

A note on a case involving imposition of penalties for a mistaken failure by an employer to account to the Inland Revenue Department for Pay As You Earn or PAYE deductions from employee remuneration. Instead the sole shareholder/director of the company paid it in a lump sum at the end of the year. Although the Commissioner can ultimately hold the employee responsible for PAYE, the relative severity of the penalty imposed on the employer in this case reflects the policy of the PAYE system whereby the primary burden and responsibility to pay tax on wages is placed on the employer. Furthermore, failure to account for PAYE tax is tantamount to theft, since once employees have earned their wages property in the remuneration passes from the employer.

Keywords: Tax administration, penalties, PAYE

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, Tax – Penalties for Failure to Forward PAYE (1984). Recent Law, p. 60, 1984, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1571984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,604
RANK
499,164
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies