Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Classification of Foreign Operations for Financial Reporting

Posted: 5 Apr 1999

Fawzi Laswad

Massey University

Melvin Roush

Pittsburg State University; Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: February 1999

Abstract

The New Zealand (NZ) standard on foreign currency translation (FRS-21), similar to standards in the US, Australia, and Canada and the International Accounting Standard (IAS-21), requires the classification of foreign operations for translation purposes into two mutually exclusive types: integrated or independent. In judging whether a foreign operation is either integrated or independent, the accounting standard requires the evaluation of five qualitative factors. The standard neither describes the judgement process nor identifies the relative importance of the determining factors.

It has been asserted that the lack of clarity in the standard on foreign currency translation may yield dissimilar results for firms whose circumstances are similar and consequently may reduce the comparability of financial statements across firms.

Using a repeated measures design, this paper examines the judgement of preparers of financial statements (New Zealand financial controllers) in determining the designation of foreign operations for translation purposes. The results indicate that the relative importance of the determining factors is marginally unequal. No support is found for the assertion that the use of qualitative factors in accounting standards results in dissimilar judgements (lack of consensus) across respondents. Further, the results show that the subjects demonstrated consistency and self-insight in their judgements. Further, the results indicate that the judgements of respondents are not biased toward either classification of foreign operation. This may suggest that the observed bias may be motivated by economic factors rather than the outcome of using the qualitative cues in the accounting standard. When the respondents were debriefed, several of them identified 'managerial independence' as another determining factor that has not been included in the NZ standard.

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Laswad, Fawzi and Roush, Melvin, Classification of Foreign Operations for Financial Reporting (February 1999). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=157108
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,648
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies