Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gift Duty – Transfers of Matrimonial Property

Recent Law, p. 61, 1984

2 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2010

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: 1984

Abstract

A note on Commissioner of Inland Revenue v. Van Doorne & Ors [1983] NZLR 495 (CA) Cooke, Richardson and McMullin JJ, which involved a transfer of two fifths of a farm where the transfer was held not to be a dutiable gift because the farm was matrimonial property and thus the wife was entitled to half.

The ratio of the case was codified in section 75A(2) of the Estate and Gift Duties Act 1968.

Keywords: Gift, estate planning, matrimonial property, relationship property, gift duty, Estate and Gift Duties Act, New Zealand

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, Gift Duty – Transfers of Matrimonial Property (1984). Recent Law, p. 61, 1984, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1572024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,372
RANK
841,621
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies