Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandating IFRS in an Unfavorable Environment: The Greek Experience

Posted: 25 Mar 2010

Nikolaos I. Karampinis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Dimosthenis L. Hevas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 16, 2010

Abstract

This paper assesses the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption in Greece. Our research is motivated by an ongoing debate about the efficacy of enforcing high quality accounting standards in controversial economies with unfavorable economic infrastructures. We perceive Greece as a representative unfavorable economy due to its code-law tradition, bank-orientation, concentrated corporate ownership, weak legal enforcement, poor shareholders’ protection and low regulatory quality. Provided that these circumstances negatively affect managers’ and auditors’ reporting incentives, simply mandating IFRS may prove to be an immaterial change if it is not combined with parallel improvements in other factors that influence the financial reporting system. To address our research question, we explore possible changes in two salient properties of accounting income that are in the forefront of accounting research over the last years: value relevance and conditional conservatism. Our results indicate only minor improvements in both of them after IFRS implementation.

Keywords: IFRS, Reporting Incentives, Value Relevance, Conditional Conservatism, Accounting Quality

JEL Classification: M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Karampinis, Nikolaos I. and Hevas, Dimosthenis (Dimosthenes) L., Mandating IFRS in an Unfavorable Environment: The Greek Experience (March 16, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1572495
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,209
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies