Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Incentive Effects of R&D Tax Credits: An Empirical Examination in an Emerging Economy

47 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2010

Ming-Chin Chen

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Sanjay Gupta

Michigan State University - Eli Broad College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 7, 2010

Abstract

This paper investigates whether an increase in the R&D tax credit rate stimulates firms’ incremental R&D spending, and whether firms plan their R&D spending to take advantage of additional tax credits for incremental R&D spending. We find that the increase in the credit rate has a positive effect on the R&D spending of high-tech firms with taxable status, but does not have the same positive effect on non-high tech firms. In magnitude terms, the increased R&D spending for high-tech (non-high tech) firms is about 27% (6.6%), or 16.78% for the overall sample, which translates into credit-induced increase in R&D spending in Taiwan at $4.58 per dollar of revenue forgone. These results indicate that tax incentives alone may not be effective to increase R&D spending if firms do not have profitable innovation opportunities. Further, we find that when the tax incentive is structured as a credit based on incremental R&D spending over a moving-average base, firms opportunistically time their R&D spending patterns to obtain additional tax credits, resulting in greater variability in R&D spending and potentially unintended loss of tax revenues. This study contributes to the ongoing global debate about the efficacy of tax policies towards R&D, especially in emerging economies, by providing first-time firm-level evidence from a large cross-section of Taiwanese firms.

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ming-Chin and Gupta, Sanjay, The Incentive Effects of R&D Tax Credits: An Empirical Examination in an Emerging Economy (March 7, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1574136 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1574136
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Rosanne Altshuler
A Dynamic Analysis of the Research and Experimentation Credit
National Tax Journal , volume 41 , issue 4 , p. 453 - 466 Posted: 1988-12
Philip Berger
Explicit and Implicit Tax Effects of the R&D Tax Credit
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 131 - 171 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Yih-Chyi Chuang , Chi-Mei Lin
Foreign Direct Investment, R&D and Spillover Efficiency: Evidence from Taiwan's Manufacturing Firms
The Journal of Development Studies , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 117 - 137 Posted: 1999-04
Crossref
Wesley Cohen , Richard Levin , David Mowery
Firm Size and R&D Intensity: A Re-Examination
The Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 543 - 565 Posted: 1987-06
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Michelle Hanlon , Shane Heitzman
A review of tax research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2-3 , p. 127 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Michelle Hanlon , Shane Heitzman
A Review of Tax Research
138 Pages · Posted: 23 Sep 2009 · Last revised: 28 Jul 2010 · Downloads: 12,817
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,301
RANK
181,383
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Firm Size and R&D Intensity: a Re-Examination

By Wesley M. Cohen, Richard C. Levin, ...

R&D Intensity and the NPD Portfolio

By Raul O. Chao and Stelios Kavadias

Impact of Profitability, R&D Intensity, and Cash Flow on R&D Expenditure in Pharmaceutical Companies

By Destrina Grace Simanjuntak and Raymond R. Tjandrawinata

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies