Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Predictive Power of Comprehensive Income and its Individual Components Under IFRS

Problems and Perspectives in Management (PPM), Forthcoming 2011

51 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2010 Last revised: 16 Nov 2012

Paul Pronobis

Free University of Bolzano-Bozen

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: August 24, 2010

Abstract

This study examines the predictive power of comprehensive income and its individual components within the homogenous institutional setting of German IFRS firms. The results could be relevant for the standard setters IASB and FASB and their joint project “Financial Statement Presentation”. We find no evidence that comprehensive income has a superior predictive power for future firm operating performance than net income. Further, we fail to find significant incremental predictive power of aggregated or individual components of other comprehensive income for subsequent period’s firm operating performance. The actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension obligations even seem to merely add noise for the prediction of subsequent period’s net income and of subsequent period’s comprehensive income. In contrast, our analyses indicate that other comprehensive income components seem to have incremental predictive power beyond one period. Finally, we find that the predictive power of net income and comprehensive for future firm operating performance has deteriorated as a consequence of the IASB’s recent initiatives and actions.

Keywords: earnings quality, operating cash flows, other comprehensive income, Germany, predictability

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M47, G12

Suggested Citation:

Pronobis, Paul and Zülch, Henning, The Predictive Power of Comprehensive Income and its Individual Components Under IFRS (August 24, 2010). Problems and Perspectives in Management (PPM), Forthcoming 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1576384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1576384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Sudipta Basu
The Conservatism Principle and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings'
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
William H Beaver
Commentary on Problems and Paradoxes in the Financial Reporting of Future Events'. Accounting Horizons , p. 122 - 134 Posted: 1991-12
Victor L Bernard
The Feltham-Ohlson Framework: Implications for Empiricists'. Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 11 , p. 733 - 747 Posted: 1995
Gary C Biddle , Jong-Hag Choi
Is Comprehensive Income Useful?
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
13 Citations
Patrizia Gazzola , Stefano Amelio
The Impact of Comprehensive Income on the Financial Ratios in a Period of Crises
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 12 , p. 174 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Slavko Šodan
The Impact of Fair Value Accounting on Earnings Quality in Eastern European Countries
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 32 , p. 1769 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Das Translationsrisiko multinationaler Konzerne in Deutschland
Schmalenbachs Zeitschrift für betriebswirtschaftliche Forschung , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 203 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Lynn L. Rees , Philip B. Shane
Academic Research and Standard Setting: The Case of Other Comprehensive Income
Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 26 Mar 2012 · Last revised: 7 May 2012 · Downloads: 888
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,935
RANK
45,290
13 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies