Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Internet Financial Reporting on Stock Prices Moderated by Corporate Governance: Evidence from Indonesia Capital Market

30 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2010

Zulfa Devina Rahman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 23, 2010

Abstract

This study focuses on examining the impact of Internet Financial Reporting (IFR) on stock prices in Indonesia Stock Exchange. As stated by efficient market hypothesis (EMH), security prices at any time “fully reflect” all available information. If the market is true efficient, voluntarily financial information disclosed on web site would generates stock prices that reflect this kind of information. This study also investigates whether IFR companies have better financial condition than non IFR companies as predicted by signaling hypothesis. Previous study said that the use of internet as reporting tool indicates high firm’s quality because IFR firms are seen more up to date and advance in technology than traditional firms (non IFR firms). In addition, this study tries to explore the moderating role of corporate governance in increasing the value of IFR companies for the investors.

This study investigates all public companies incorporated in Kompas 100 index. Kompas-100 Index is an index of 100 shares of public companies traded on Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) that have high liquidity and high market capitalization. The results show that the degree of information discloses in website has significant positive impact on abnormal return. The t-test used to test any significant difference between IFR companies and non IFR companies shows insignificant result. Finally, the hierarchical regression test used to examine the impact of moderating variable, corporate governance, on IFR companies’ stock prices also shows insignificant result.

Keywords: Internet Financial Reporting (IFR), Abnormal Return, the degree of voluntary information disclosure, and Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G14, G30

Suggested Citation:

rahman, Zulfa devina, The Impact of Internet Financial Reporting on Stock Prices Moderated by Corporate Governance: Evidence from Indonesia Capital Market (February 23, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1576327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1576327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
H Asbaugh , K M Johnstone , T D Warfield
Corporate reporting on the Internet
Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 241 - 257 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
How much new information is there in earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 5 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Bauer , N Guenster , R Otten
Empirical evidence on Corporate Governance in Europe: The Effect on Stock Returns, Firm Value and Performance
Journal of Asset Management , volume 5 , p. 91 - 104 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Black , H Jang , W Kim
Does corporate governance affect firm value?
A Working Paper Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,645
RANK
33,719
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Reporting on the Internet by Irish Companies

By Niamh M. Brennan and Denis Hourigan

Economic Consequences of Internet Financial Reporting

By Alfred Wagenhofer

Use of the Internet by Irish Companies for Investor Relations Purposes

By Niamh M. Brennan and Sorka Kelly

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies