Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pre-Clearance in European Accounting Law - The Right Step?

PERSPECTIVES IN COMPANY LAW AND FINANCIAL REGULATION - ESSAYS IN HONOUR OF EDDY WYMEERSCH, pp. 231-243, Michel Tison, Hans De Wulf, Christoph Van Der Elst and Reinhard Steennot, eds., Cambridge University Press, 2009

Posted: 15 Apr 2010

Wolfgang Schoen

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance, Department of Business and Tax Law

Date Written: July 20, 2009

Abstract

The responsibility for the accuracy and reliability of the annual and consolidated accounts of a company rests with a number of institutions such as the company's board, audit committees and the different types of standard setters. In recent years, also capital market authorities and their auxiliary troops have been entrusted with the task of ex post review of financial reports disclosed by listed companies. Fearing the danger of being exposed to a public discussion about the appropriateness of their financial reports, big market players have voiced the desire to institutionalise the possibility to obtain individual case-related statements or indications via “no action letters” on the general approvability of certain accounting measures from the capital market authorities. This claim for a so called “pre-clearance” is prima facie supported by positive experiences in the U.S., where the SEC's authority to issue statements encountering ambiguous cases in accounting law has gained great factual importance. However, as a comparison of the legal U.S. and European accounting framework shows, there exists a far higher degree of power division in European accounting law than it is the case in the U.S. As a consequence the extensive introduction of pre-clearance threatens to fall foul of the institutional structure of disclosing companies, their rapport with the statutory auditors and the courts’ control function. At the same time, capital market authorities and their financial reporting review panels would master less and less their genuine task of effectively persecuting clear reporting violations.

Keywords: Financial reporting, SEC, disclosure, no action letter, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Schön, Wolfgang, Pre-Clearance in European Accounting Law - The Right Step? (July 20, 2009). PERSPECTIVES IN COMPANY LAW AND FINANCIAL REGULATION - ESSAYS IN HONOUR OF EDDY WYMEERSCH, pp. 231-243, Michel Tison, Hans De Wulf, Christoph Van Der Elst and Reinhard Steennot, eds., Cambridge University Press, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1577524
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,490
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies