Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax Coordination for a Second-Best World (Part I)

World Tax Journal, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 67-114, September 2009

48 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2010

Wolfgang Schoen

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance, Department of Business and Tax Law

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

International business taxation has become the object of debate in recent years. The allocation of taxing rights between residence and source countries is challenged. Time-honoured rules which address different types of business profits, like sales and services, royalties and interest, in different ways, are put to the test. Profit attribution under the arm’s length principle faces the alternative of formulary apportionment. Moreover, international tax competition takes its toll: while some countries exert their tax jurisdiction as far as possible, other countries are no longer willing to tax capital income at all cost and prefer an attractive tax environment for investors. This (two-part) article analyses the value of legal and economic principles for international tax coordination and proposes a “second- best approach,” which leaves domestic tax systems as they are and tries to do away with discontinuities under international taxation, thus avoiding arbitrary results which lead to inequity, inefficiency and tax arbitrage.

Keywords: International Tax Law, Corporate Taxation, Business Tax, Tax Competition, Profit Attribution, Allocation

Suggested Citation:

Schön, Wolfgang, International Tax Coordination for a Second-Best World (Part I) (September 1, 2009). World Tax Journal, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 67-114, September 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1577035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,623
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,786
RANK
25,766
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies