Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS in Small Island Economies: Problems and Challenges to the Private and Public-Sector Enterprises: Using Data from Mauritius

31 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2010

Pran Krishansing Boolaky

University of Southern Queensland - School of Accounting, Economics and Finance

Date Written: March 25, 2010

Abstract

This paper studies IFRS problems and challenges faced by private-sector enterprises (PSEs) and state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the context of Small Island Economies (SIEs). Using data from Mauritius the IFRS conversion and implementation process is investigated with focus on conversion cost and implementation problems. While the conversion cost is divided into four elements (training cost, IFRS software cost, advisory cost and audit fees) the implementation problems are expressed in terms of difficulties related to the IFRSs. The paper reports that though IFRS conversion was smooth in Mauritius, the conversion cost was significant. The costs were on the high side for the private sector compared to SOEs. Contrary to the findings of UNCTAD on other countries (such as India, Pakistan, Kenya), IFRS implementation was less difficult because FRS project was done by phases. In each phase appropriate infrastructure was put in place to sustain the IFRS project. As in many other countries (developed and emerging) Mauritius also has faced similar problems with certain IFRSs.

Suggested Citation:

Boolaky, Pran Krishansing, IFRS in Small Island Economies: Problems and Challenges to the Private and Public-Sector Enterprises: Using Data from Mauritius (March 25, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1578075 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1578075
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
O Abdelsalam , P Weetman
Introducing international accounting standards to an emerging capital market; relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International accounting, Auditing and taxation , volume 12 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A I Abongwa
An empirical investigation of the relationship between culture and accountants" attitude towards the harmonisation of International Accounting Standards in United States of America and Cameroon Posted: 2008-04
H Al-Basketi
The voluntary adoption of International Accounting Standards by Bahraini corporations
Advances in International Accounting , volume 8 , p. 47 - 64 Posted: 1995
M Al-Akra , A Hajangir , O Marashdeh
Development of accounting regulation in Jordan
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 44 , p. 163 - 186 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Anh Tuan Nguyen , Guangming Gong
Measurement of Formal Convergence of Vietnamese Accounting Standards with IFRS
Australian Accounting Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 182 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Lisa Nguyen , Keith Hooper , Rowena Sinclair
Conservatism versus change in the Vietnamese accounting field?
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 471 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Pran Krishansing Boolaky
Accounting development and international financial reporting standards in small island economies
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 4 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Nadia Albu , Catalin Nicolae Albu , Stefan Bunea , Daniela Artemisa St. Calu , Maria Mădălina Gĭrbină
A Story About IAS/IFRS Implementation in Romania: An Institutional and Structuration Theory Perspective
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 76-100, 2011 · 25 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2011 · Last revised: 30 Dec 2012 · Downloads: 430
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,045
RANK
45,193
5 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Search; Learning; Information Costs & Specific Knowledge; Expectation & Speculation eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies