Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Granting of Loans by German Banks to SMES Against the Back-Ground of International Financial Reporting

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 43-57, 2010

Posted: 30 Mar 2010 Last revised: 4 Jun 2010

Stephan T. Burghardt

Handelshochschule Leipzig (HHL)

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: June 9, 2009

Abstract

Purpose – This paper examines whether the choice of the financial reporting system can influence the credit rating of an enterprise. It aims to argue that SMEs reporting according to IFRS can – in some cases – benefit from better credit conditions in comparison with reporting according to the German Commercial Code (German-GAAP). Therefore the analysis focuses on the perceptions of German banks.

Design/methodology/approach – The study uses the results of a written questionnaire which has been sent to more than 1,500 German banks, which makes it the most comprehensive empirical analysis of the perceptions of German banks concerning the granting of loans.

Findings – The findings show (amongst others) that bank internal ratings can be a motivation for SMEs to change the system of financial reporting from German-GAAP to IFRS. Surprisingly, enterprises can in some cases even expect a “rating bonus” in the pricing of the credit, if they provide an IFRS statement instead of a statement prepared in accordance with German-GAAP.

Research limitations/implications – Due to the rapidly changing accounting environment (concerning IFRS as well as the German Commercial Code) the findings have to be re-examined by future research.

Originality/value - This report draws on the present state of research, complementing it for the first time with representative empirical data from the perspective of the decision makers in German credit institutions.

Keywords: Granting of loans, credit rating, rating advantages, credit conditions, IFRS for SMEs, transition to IFRS, standardization of financial statements

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Burghardt, Stephan T. and Zülch, Henning, The Granting of Loans by German Banks to SMES Against the Back-Ground of International Financial Reporting (June 9, 2009). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 43-57, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1578278
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,031
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies