Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Earnings Quality in Germany and its Implication for Further Research

Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 434-455, Fall 2009

Posted: 30 Mar 2010

Paul Pronobis

Free University of Bolzano-Bozen

Bernhard Schwetzler

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management - Department of Finance

Marco O. Sperling

University of Marburg - School of Business & Economics

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: November 6, 2009

Abstract

This paper investigates the development of earnings quality for a sample of 5,817 firm years during the period between 1997 and 2006 using seven different measures (accounting- and market-based). As a result, overall earnings quality of German firms improves over time. However, the measures of timeliness and value relevance indicate a decreasing earnings quality. These findings are tested by taking firm-specific accounting style into consideration using firm fixed effects.

Keywords: earnings quality, persistence, predictability, volatility, accruals quality, earnings management, timeliness, prudence, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M47, G12

Suggested Citation:

Pronobis, Paul and Schwetzler, Bernhard and Sperling, Marco O. and Zülch, Henning, The Development of Earnings Quality in Germany and its Implication for Further Research (November 6, 2009). Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 434-455, Fall 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1578178
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,651
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies