Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reclassification of Financial Instruments in the Financial Crisis – Empirical Evidence from the European Banking Sector

35 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2010

Khaled Kholmy

Ruhr University of Bochum

Jürgen Ernstberger

Technische Universität München

Date Written: March 26, 2010

Abstract

This paper analyzes the determinants and consequences of using a new option under IFRS to reclassify financial instruments from fair value categories to categories measured at cost or amortized cost. Many critics blamed fair value accounting as a reason or at least a catalyst of the ongoing financial crisis. The IASB amended the rules of fair value accounting for financial instruments in order to prevent further asset write-offs. For a sample of major European banks, we find that the use of the option is influenced by banks’ size, profitability, analyst coverage and by the law tradition of their home country. We also find some evidence that banks using this option face higher bid-ask spreads after disclosing their decision.

Keywords: IAS 39, fair value accounting, financial crisis, financial instruments

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G01, G21

Suggested Citation:

Kholmy, Khaled and Ernstberger, Jürgen, Reclassification of Financial Instruments in the Financial Crisis – Empirical Evidence from the European Banking Sector (March 26, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1578823 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1578823
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
D Alexander , S Archer
Miller European accounting guide
Aspen Law & Business, 4 Posted: 2001
P André , A Cazavan-Jeny , W Dick , C Richard , Walton , P
Fair value accounting and the banking crisis in 2008: Shooting the messenger
Accounting in Europe , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Banca Generali Group
Annual Report Banca Generali Group Posted: 2008
M E Barth
Fair value accounting: Evidence from investment securities and the market valuation of banks
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,301
RANK
29,375
4 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies