Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation: The Influence of the German Rules for Taxation of Equity-Distributions

Zeitschrift fuer Betriebswirtschaft ZfB, Vol. 76, No. 9, pp. 867-901, 2006

Posted: 1 Apr 2010

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Ruth-Caroline Zimmermann

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 24, 2005

Abstract

The German Tax Reform Act of 2000 has had significant influence on the taxation of the income distributed by German corporations. Part of these regulations are rules on how to tax distributions from earnings retained during the period before the new regulations became effective. These rules heavily influence the tax burden on the distributed income and thus the value of these corporations. This paper therefore integrates these regulations into the relevant valuation formulas needed for the application of the Discounted Cash Flow-methodology in Germany.

Keywords: Cost of capital, personal taxes, tax shield, valuation

JEL Classification: G31, G34

Suggested Citation:

Schultze, Wolfgang and Zimmermann, Ruth-Caroline, Valuation: The Influence of the German Rules for Taxation of Equity-Distributions (January 24, 2005). Zeitschrift fuer Betriebswirtschaft ZfB, Vol. 76, No. 9, pp. 867-901, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1579978
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,292
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies