Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hurdle Rates, Taxes and the Irrelevance of Dividend Policy in Valuation

Zeitschrift fuer Betriebswirtschaft ZfB, Vol. 77, No. 11, pp. 1179-1216, 2007

Posted: 1 Apr 2010

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Date Written: August 30, 2006

Abstract

This paper derives the pre-tax-hurdle rates for the reinvestment of retained earnings of German corporations. We show that, contrary to the extant literature, in a system of double-taxation as is prevalent in Germany, the retention of earnings to shareholders is not necessarily beneficial. Shareholders only benefit from retentions when the funds retained are invested at a rate higher than the derived hurdle rates. Funds that cannot be invested at such a rate are to be distributed and are therefore known as free cash flows in the literature. We show that the assumption of a full distribution of free cash flows maximizes the value for shareholders as compared to other assumptions and is therefore preferable.

Keywords: Cost of capital, personal taxes, dividend policy, valuation, discounted cash flow

JEL Classification: G31, H25, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Schultze, Wolfgang and Dinh, Tami, Hurdle Rates, Taxes and the Irrelevance of Dividend Policy in Valuation (August 30, 2006). Zeitschrift fuer Betriebswirtschaft ZfB, Vol. 77, No. 11, pp. 1179-1216, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1579954
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,555
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies