Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Company Valuation after the German Tax Reform 2008: Implications for the Tax Shield from Debt Financing

Die Betriebswirtschaft (DBW), Vol. 68, No. 1, pp. 9-34, 2008

Posted: 3 Apr 2010

Carmen Bachmann

University of Augsburg - Faculty of Business and Economics

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Date Written: November 19, 2007

Abstract

The value of a levered firm depends to a large extent upon the value of the tax shields. The German Corporate Tax Reform Act 2008 changes the tax system dramatically and introduces a new ceiling for the tax-deduction of interest payments. A central objective of this reform has been the tax neutrality of financing. In this paper we analyze whether this goal was achieved. We determine the tax shield from debt financing for German corporations for the new and old tax system. In comparing the two, we conclude that the reform has largely increased rather than decreased the advantages of debt financing.

Keywords: Cost of Capital, Tax Shield, Valuation

JEL Classification: G31, G34

Suggested Citation:

Bachmann, Carmen and Schultze, Wolfgang, Company Valuation after the German Tax Reform 2008: Implications for the Tax Shield from Debt Financing (November 19, 2007). Die Betriebswirtschaft (DBW), Vol. 68, No. 1, pp. 9-34, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1580030
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,727
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies