Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Different Approaches to Corporate Reporting Regulation: How Jurisdictions Differ and Why

Chicago Booth Initiative on Global Markets Research Paper No. 53

ECGI - Law Working Paper No. 156/2010

68 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2010 Last revised: 31 May 2010

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Date Written: March 30, 2010

Abstract

This paper discusses differences in countries’ approaches to reporting regulation and explores the reasons why they exist in the first place as well as why they are likely to persist. I first delineate various regulatory choices and discuss the tradeoffs associated with these choices. I also provide a framework that can explain differences in corporate reporting regulation. Next, I present descriptive and stylized evidence on regulatory and institutional differences across countries. There are robust institutional clusters around the world. I discuss that these clusters are likely to persist given the complementarities among countries’ institutions. An important implication of this finding is that reporting practices are unlikely to converge globally, despite efforts to harmonize reporting standards. Convergence of reporting practices is also unlikely due to persistent enforcement differences around the world. Given an ostensibly strong demand for convergence in reporting practices for globally operating firms, I propose a different way forward that does not require convergence of reporting regulation and enforcement across countries. The idea is to create a “Global Player Segment” (GPS), in which member firms play by the same reporting rules and face the same enforcement. Such a segment could be created and administered by a supra-national body like IOSCO.

Keywords: Accounting, Regulation, IFRS, U.S. GAAP, SEC, Standard Setting, Mandatory Disclosure, Political economy

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G30, K22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Leuz, Christian, Different Approaches to Corporate Reporting Regulation: How Jurisdictions Differ and Why (March 30, 2010). Chicago Booth Initiative on Global Markets Research Paper No. 53, ECGI - Law Working Paper No. 156/2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1581472 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1581472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
P Aghion , B Hermalin
Legal Restrictions on Private Contracts can Enhance Efficiency
Economics and Organization , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 381 - 409 Posted: 1990
Crossref
A Agrawal
The Impact of Investor Protection Law on Corporate Policy: Evidence from the Blue Sky Laws Posted: 2009
Crossref
F Allen , D Gale
Comparing Financial Systems Posted: 2000
W Bailey , G A Karolyi , G A , C Salva
The Economic Consequences of Increased Disclosure: Evidence from International Cross-Listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,812
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,959
RANK
6,613
74 Citations
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies