Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Experience of Importance to New Zealand Business – Part 1: Simplification

Current Taxation, Vol. 37, pp. 72-74, 1993

3 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2010

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: 1993

Abstract

Tax simplification is a subject that causes great debate throughout the OECD. The general basis for simplification programmes is to identify factors that cause taxation to be complex, followed by an attempt to minimise the effects of these factors. Through the 1980s New Zealand engaged in one of the most comprehensive reforms of tax law since the introduction of income tax itself. Many of the reforms were widely criticised for posing undue burdens on taxpayers. An analysis of foreign developments similar to those of New Zealand’s highlights the fact that many of the criticisms leveled at the tax reforms were unfounded.

Keywords: International tax law, Business law, Tax reform, Tax simplification

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, International Experience of Importance to New Zealand Business – Part 1: Simplification (1993). Current Taxation, Vol. 37, pp. 72-74, 1993, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1582271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies