Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary IFRS Adoption and Stock Price Synchronicity: Do Analyst Following and Institutional Infrastructure Matter?

51 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2010

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Haina Shi

Fudan University

Date Written: April 8, 2010

Abstract

This study investigates whether and how a firm’s voluntary adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) influences stock price synchronicity or the extent to which firm-specific information is capitalized into stock prices. We also study the role of analyst following and institutional infrastructure in determining the relation between IFRS adoption and synchronicity. Using firm-level data from 34 countries, we find that synchronicity is significantly lower for IFRS adopters than for non-adopters across all regression specifications, and that for IFRS adopters, it decreases from the pre-adoption period to the post-adoption period.

This finding supports the view that voluntary IFRS adoption facilitates the incorporation of firm-specific information into stock prices. We also find that the synchronicity-reducing effect of IFRS adoption is attenuated (accentuated) for firms with high (low) analyst following, and is stronger (weaker) for firms in countries with poor (good) institutional infrastructures. The above results are robust to a variety of sensitivity checks.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), analyst coverage, institutional

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Shi, Haina, Voluntary IFRS Adoption and Stock Price Synchronicity: Do Analyst Following and Institutional Infrastructure Matter? (April 8, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1586657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1586657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
J Ashbaugh¸hashbaugh¸h , R Gassen , Lafond
Does stock price synchronicity reflect information or noise? The international evidence. Working paper Posted: 2006
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brooking-Wharton Papers on Financial Services Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
591
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,423
RANK
105,207
5 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies