Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pension Accounting Choice in Germany: Pension Discount Rate and Actuarial Gains and Losses

48 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2010 Last revised: 10 Apr 2010

Christian Stadler

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: April 7, 2010

Abstract

This paper analyses pension accounting choice in Germany for firms using IFRS or US GAAP. It shows that firms choose the pension discount rate and the treatment of actuarial gains and losses in order to smooth the effect of inherently volatile pension numbers. Pension discount rates for German pension plans are lower than market interest rates when interest rates rise and vice versa. The option to account for actuarial gains and losses outside profit or loss under IFRS is more likely to be adopted if a firm has actuarial losses in excess of the 10% corridor. These and further findings of the paper indicate that pension accounting choice in Germany is utilised strategically.

Keywords: pension accounting, pension discount rate, actuarial gains and losses, smoothing, IAS 19, Germany

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Stadler, Christian, Pension Accounting Choice in Germany: Pension Discount Rate and Actuarial Gains and Losses (April 7, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1586117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1586117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M Amen
Simulation-Based Comparison of Existent IAS 19 Accounting Options
European Accounting Review , volume 16 , p. 243 - 276 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A I Blankley , E P Swanson
A Longitudinal Study of SFAS 87 Pension Rate Assumptions
Accounting Horizons , volume 9 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1995
Z Bodie , J O Light , R Morck , R A Taggart , Jr
Corporate Pension Policy: An Empirical Investigation
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 41 , p. 10 - 16 Posted: 1985
Crossref
G Ebinger , C Stadler
Zinsermittlungsmethoden zur Bewertung von Pensionsverpflichtungen nach IAS 19 [Methods of Determining the Discount Rate for Measurement of Pension Obligations under IAS 19
FINANZ BETRIEB , volume 10 , p. 665 - 672 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
676
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,313
RANK
88,500
3 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Pension Risk Management eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies