Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Informativeness of Accounting Information to Shareholders in Egypt: Perspectives from the Most Actively Trading Firms

Journal of Business & Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 1, 2006

12 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2010

Mohamed Hassan Abdel-Azim

United Arab Emirates University (UAEU)

Tarek Ibrahim Eldomiaty

American University in Cairo

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

This study examines the informativeness of accounting information to three classes of shareholder value; high, medium and low. The results indicate that shareholder value adjusts positively a target level according to the five categories of financial ratios. This shows a high degree of informativeness of accounting information to shareholders in Egypt. In general, the results show that shareholders in the three classes are quite affected by the firms’ assets efficiency and profitability. In addition, shareholders do not appreciate liquidity and cost elements. Shareholders in the low class in particular do not appreciate the benefits of costless financing and prefer short term debt over long-term debt financing.

Suggested Citation:

Abdel-Azim, Mohamed Hassan and Eldomiaty, Tarek Ibrahim, Informativeness of Accounting Information to Shareholders in Egypt: Perspectives from the Most Actively Trading Firms (2006). Journal of Business & Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 1, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1588305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
B Abuzarour
The Effect of Infrequent Trading on Market Efficiency: The Case of the Middle East Stock Markets Posted: 2005
D H Bellemore , J C Ritchie
Posted: 1974
S Besley , E F Brigham
Essentials of Managerial Finance Posted: 2000
Z Bodie , A Kane , A J Marcus
Essentials of Investments. 5 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,684
RANK
481,321
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies