Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Initial Listing Standards, Accounting-Based Metrics and Firm Delistings

57 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2010

Harri Seppänen

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 14, 2010

Abstract

Prior research provides scant and mixed evidence on the role of accounting-based metrics in regulating the quality of newly listed firms. This study documents based on a large sample of newly listed high-technology firms from 31 countries during 1995-2000 that profitability, but not firm size, leverage or liquidity, is robustly associated with a firm’s propensity to delist. The setting of a minimum threshold level, however, requires a regulator to make a trade-off between investor protection and facilitating access to new capital for emerging firms. Nevertheless, investors seem to price-protect against a firm’s propensity to delist at least under some conditions irrespective of the institutional setting.

Keywords: Newly Listed Firms, Initial Listing Standards, Delisting Risk

JEL Classification: G15, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Seppänen, Harri, Initial Listing Standards, Accounting-Based Metrics and Firm Delistings (April 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1589294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1589294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
R Aggarwal , J J Angel
The rise and fall of the Amex emerging company marketplace
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 289 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Rajesh K. Aggarwal , Sanjai Bhagat , Srinivasan P. Rangan
The Impact of Fundamentals on IPO Valuation
Pages: 48 Posted: 11 Sep 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Alti
IPO market timing
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 1105 - 1138 Posted: 2005
Chris S. Armstrong , George Foster , Daniel Taylor
Abnormal Accruals in Newly Public Companies: Opportunistic Misreporting or Economic Activity?
Management Science, Forthcoming Pages: 48 Posted: 18 Jun 2008 Last revised: 6 Feb 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,007
RANK
355,843
1 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why Has IPO Underpricing Changed Over Time?

By Tim Loughran and Jay R. Ritter

Why Has IPO Underpricing Changed Over Time?

By Tim Loughran and Jay R. Ritter

A Review of IPO Activity, Pricing and Allocations

By Jay R. Ritter and Ivo Welch

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies