Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives Cross-Segment Diversity in Returns and Risks? Evidence from Japanese and U.S. Firms

The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 45, pp. 44-76, 2010

Posted: 17 Apr 2010

Pontus Troberg

Helsinki School of Economics

Juha Kinnunen

Aalto University School of Business

Harri Seppänen

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 1, 2010

Abstract

The usefulness of segment reporting is grounded on the presumption of diversities of returns and risks across reported segments. We examine the effect of country-specific factors, reporting incentives and choices on an ANOVA-based measure of cross-segment diversities (CSD) in risk and returns for a sample of Japanese and U.S. multi-segment firms. We find that, in contrast to our expectations, Japanese firms exhibit greater CSD than U.S. firms. Moreover, we find that in both countries CSD is driven especially by reporting incentives associated with profitability and foreign sales, but not by proprietary costs. Further, the manager’s choice of the number of reported segments is an important factor affecting CSD.

Keywords: Risk and return, Segment reporting, Business segment, Operating segment, Proprietary costs, Japanese keiretsu

JEL Classification: M41, G14, D81

Suggested Citation:

Troberg, Pontus and Kinnunen, Juha and Seppänen, Harri, What Drives Cross-Segment Diversity in Returns and Risks? Evidence from Japanese and U.S. Firms (March 1, 2010). The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 45, pp. 44-76, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1590070
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,397
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies