Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market Reaction to the Finance Lease Capitalization from the View Point of Risk Assessment

16 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2010 Last revised: 26 Apr 2010

Eiko Arata

Musashi University

Date Written: April 23, 2010

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate whether the market reaction associated with the movement of the finance lease disclosures from footnotes to the body of financial statements. I have chosen to examine a Japanese sample because I could obtain enough number of firms which were influenced by the change of accounting standard.

The result showed that the market has not reacted on the average about having shifted to recognition from disclosure and the risk of specific industries was revised upward by standard revision. This means that investors were not able to foresee change of lessees’ decision rather than the footnote disclosure was inferior to recognition on balance sheets.

Although the results of this paper are concerned with the capitalization of finance leases, they have some implication for “Leases: Preliminary Views” released by FASB and IASB.

Keywords: Lease Accounting Risk Assesment

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Arata, Eiko, The Market Reaction to the Finance Lease Capitalization from the View Point of Risk Assessment (April 23, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1594748 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1594748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
R G Bowman
The Debt Equivalence of Leases: An Empirical Investigation
The Accounting Review , issue 2 , p. 237 - 253 Posted: 1980-04
J E Finnerty , R N Fitzsimmons , T W Oliver
Lease Capitalization and Systematic Risk
The Accounting Review , volume 55 , issue 4 , p. 631 - 639 Posted: 1980
B P Lindsey
A Value Relevance Examination of Current Leasing Standard, Dissertation paper, the University of North Carolina Posted: 2006
R C Lipe
Lease Accounting Research and the G4+1 Proposal
Accounting Horizons , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 299 - 310 Posted: 2001-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
914
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,424
RANK
59,295
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies