Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multinationals, Minority Ownership and Tax-Efficient Financing Structures

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 3034

39 Pages Posted: 5 May 2010

Dirk Schindler

Erasmus School of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Guttorm Schjelderup

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2010

Abstract

This paper presents a theory model that simultaneously accounts for the financing decisions and ownership structure in affiliates of multinational firms. We find that affiliates of multinationals have higher internal and overall debt ratios and lower rental rates of physical capital than comparable domestic firms. We also show that affiliates with minority owners have less debt than wholly owned affiliates and a less tax-efficient financing structure. The latter is due to an externality whereby minority ownership dampens the incentive to avoid taxes through the use of internal debt.

Keywords: multinationals, tax-efficient financing structures, minority ownership

JEL Classification: H25, F23

Suggested Citation:

Schindler, Dirk and Schjelderup, Guttorm, Multinationals, Minority Ownership and Tax-Efficient Financing Structures (April 2010). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 3034, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1599413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1599413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation Taxes, Repatriation Strategies, and Multinational Financial Policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Bertrand , P Mehta , M Sendhil
Ferreting out Tunneling: An Application to Indian Business Groups
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , p. 121 - 148 Posted: 2002
Crossref
T Büttner , G Wamser
Intercompany Loans and Profit Shifting -Evidence from Company-Level Data. CESifo Working Paper Nr Posted: 1959
T Büttner , M Overesch , U Schreiber , G Wamser
The Impact of Thin-Capitalization Rules on Multinationals' Financing and Investment Decisions Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,126
RANK
267,661
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Fiscal Paradise: Foreign Tax Havens and American Business

By James R. Hines Jr. and Eric M. Rice

Tax Policy and Foreign Direct Investment

By David G. Hartman

Altered States: Taxes and the Location of Foreign Direct Investment in America

By James R. Hines Jr.

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies