Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceived versus Actual Cash Flow Implications of Deferred Taxes - An Analysis of Value Relevance and Reversal under IFRS

Journal of International Accounting Research, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp.1-25, 2011

Posted: 8 Jun 2010 Last revised: 23 Feb 2011

Astrid K. Chludek

University of Cologne - Cologne Graduate School in Management, Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: October 9, 2010

Abstract

This paper provides the first value relevance analysis of deferred tax disclosures under IFRS/IAS. The comprehensive analysis, taking into account the different deferred tax components, shows that investors generally do not consider deferred taxes to convey relevant information for assessing firm value, with the exception being large net deferred tax assets. In order to examine whether the general value irrelevance of deferred tax information may be due to lacking cash flow implications, the value relevance analysis is complemented by an analysis of deferred tax balance reversal, including a quantification of deferred tax cash flow as it is implied by balance reversal. This supplemental analysis reveals that about 70 percent of the deferred tax balance persists over time, with increasing accounts dominating decreasing accounts over a four-year horizon and deferred tax assets being clearly more reversing than deferred tax liabilities. Further, quantifications reveal that the majority of balance reversals have rather negligible cash flow implications.

Keywords: deferred taxes, value relevance, reversal, deferred tax components, IAS 12

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Chludek, Astrid K., Perceived versus Actual Cash Flow Implications of Deferred Taxes - An Analysis of Value Relevance and Reversal under IFRS (October 9, 2010). Journal of International Accounting Research, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp.1-25, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1603183
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,588
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies