Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can R&D Expenditures Affect Firm Market Value? An Empirical Analysis of a Panel of European Listed Firms

Bank performance, risk and firm financing, London, Palgrave Macmillan, pp. 214-251

28 Pages Posted: 18 May 2010 Last revised: 23 Sep 2013

Andi Duqi

University of Bologna - Department of Management; University of Bologna - Yunus Social Business Centre

Giuseppe Torluccio

University of Bologna - Department of Management; Università degli studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia (UNIMORE) - Center for Research in Banking and Finance (CEFIN)

Date Written: May 17, 2010

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between research and development expenditures and the market value of European listed companies that continuously implemented R&D over the 2001-2007 period. According to the theory of efficient financial markets, investors should correctly value tangible and intangible firm assets and these valuations should therefore be reflected in the market value of any company. This relation is of particular importance to researchers and has been studied using different approaches since the 80’s. Unfortunately, the contributions are strongly focused on US and UK firms due to the relevance and liquidity of the financial markets of these countries.

There are few comparative studies for Continental European countries such as Germany, France, Italy or Sweden, as a result of the opacity of information, the less developed financial markets and the limited number of listed firms.

The study, using two econometric specifications, examines different characteristics of companies such as operative income, market share, debt to equity ratio, firm size and sales. To control for the way firms account their R&D expenditure, the IAS accounting standard variable is used, namely, the total expensing of these costs in the year they were incurred instead of capitalizing them. We also control for specific country and industry effects.

The results confirm the strong positive and significant influence of R&D expenditure on firm market value. We find the same effect when considering residual income. Nevertheless, the relevance of this effect differs among different countries. In addition, the evidence shows that younger and smaller firms that operate in hi-tech markets are able to spend more efficiently in research and development: the effect of R&D investment on firm market value in these types of companies is stronger compared to older and low-tech industry sectors. The robustness check, which considers different definitions of the dependent variable, reinforces the evidence that R&D expenditure has a significant and positive impact on the stock prices of European companies.

Note: Downloadable document is in Italian.

Keywords: Research and development expenditure, market value, valuation, European financial markets, R&D

JEL Classification: G14, G31, M41, O32

Suggested Citation:

Duqi, Andi and Torluccio, Giuseppe, Can R&D Expenditures Affect Firm Market Value? An Empirical Analysis of a Panel of European Listed Firms (May 17, 2010). Bank performance, risk and firm financing, London, Palgrave Macmillan, pp. 214-251, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1609791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1609791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Akbar , A W Stark
Deflators, Net Shareholder Cash Flows, Dividends, Capital Contributions and Estimated Models of Corporate Valuation
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting Posted: 2003
Crossref
S C Anagnostopoulou , M Levis
R&D and performance persistence: Evidence from the United Kingdom
International journal of accounting Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Blundell , R Griffith , J Van Reenen
Market Share, Market Value and Innovation in a Panel of British Manufacturing Firms
The Review of Economic Studies Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
870
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,004
RANK
63,484
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Risk and Return from Factors

By Louis K.c. Chan, J. Karaceski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies