Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coincident and Forecast Relevance of Accounting Numbers

22 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2010 Last revised: 12 Jan 2012

Karol Marek Klimczak

Lodz University of Technology

Grzegorz Szafrański

University of Lodz

Date Written: December 7, 2011

Abstract

Value relevance studies, which examine the relationship between accounting numbers and equity valuation, use market values sampled a number of months after the publication of annual financial reports. Although it stems from the researchers' belief that accounting information needs to be made available before it can be discounted in market prices, this approach disregards a substantial body of literature that proves to the contrary. Our study provides empirical evidence that directly supports the interpretation of value relevance as the ability of accounting numbers to capture value-relevant information that has already been included in market valuation. In order to describe the temporal relationship between accounting-based equity valuation and market value of equity we introduce two new concepts: coincident and forecast relevance of accounting numbers. The first represents the relevance of accounting information for market values sampled during the reporting year, while the latter represents the relevance of accounting numbers for market values sampled after fiscal year-end. We measure coincident and forecast relevance by estimating Ohlson model parameters with country panel regressions for exchange-listed companies from France and Germany. The results confirm that coincident relevance is stronger than forecast relevance in both countries. The findings contribute to the studies on value relevance by suggesting improvements to current research methods.

Keywords: value relevance, financial information, accounting standards, equity valuation, accounting methodology

JEL Classification: M41, G12

Suggested Citation:

Klimczak, Karol Marek and Szafrański, Grzegorz, Coincident and Forecast Relevance of Accounting Numbers (December 7, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1610017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1610017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Equity Valuation of Accounting Numbers for Security Investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Arce , A Mora
Empirical evidence of the effect of European accounting differences on the stock market valuation of earnings and book value
European Accounting Review , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 573 - 599 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
L S Bamber
Unexpected Earnings, Firm Size, and Trading Volume Around Quarterly Earnings Announcements
Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 3 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,715
RANK
269,867
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies