Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Major Issues Generating the Need of Translation Accounting Practices

20 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2010

Jyoti Sharma

CUG, Gandhi Nagar

Date Written: June 17, 2010

Abstract

The economy is expanding at a huge growth rate and international trade, free flow of investment from one country to another country and increase in multinational operations make a company to deal in more than one currency, so the problem of accounting treatment of foreign currency translation and foreign currency transactions arise. This paper is a simple effort to highlight the major issue because of which translation practices are highly needed. The paper is divided into five sections, three sections are covering the three major issues i.e. increase in international trade, high flow of FDI to and from India and expansion in number of MNCs day-by-day. Section IV is concerned with how the Translation Accounting Practices emerged. Section V provides the overview of the translation accounting practices in different countries.

Keywords: Foreign, Translations, Transactions, Need

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, Jyoti, Major Issues Generating the Need of Translation Accounting Practices (June 17, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1626191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1626191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
S Arthur , M S. ; A Sheffrin , E Comiskey , C Mulford
Foreign Currency Translation and Analyst Forecast Dispersion: Examining the Effects of Statement of Financial
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 551 , issue 4 Posted: 1990
D S Choi , Frederick , K G Meek
International Accounting" Pearson Education , p. 207 - 227 Posted: 2007
B J Cullen , K P Parboteeah
International Business: Strategy and the Multinational Enterprise Posted: 2004
T Doupnik , H Perera
International Accounting , p. 238 - 308 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,431
RANK
441,817
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Trade eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies