Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Adoption of International Financial Accounting Standards (IFRS) on Consolidated Financial Statements of Italian Enterprises

28th EAA Annual Congress, May 2005

38 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2010 Last revised: 8 Aug 2010

Pier Luigi Marchini

University of Parma - Department of Economics

Paolo Andrei

University of Parma (Italy) - Department of Economics

Veronica Tibiletti

University of Parma

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

In this paper we present a preliminary analysis on the main changes due to the introduction of the International Accounting Financial Standards (IFRS) in the process of drafting consolidated financial statements, with respect to the currently adopted Italian Accounting Principles.

The consolidated financial statements of 191 Italian holdings, listed in the Milan Stock Exchange and active in manufacturing and services sectors, have been analyzed. Important implications have been assessed for the following parts of the consolidated financial statement: the definition of the consolidation area, the goodwill treatment, the representation of the minority interests, and the elimination of intragroup transactions. It’s clearly apparent how new accounting rules may cause remarkable changes on values included in financial statements, with consequences on the stakeholders’ judgement and, in particular, on the investors’ judgement.

This study constitutes a partial step of a research (the adoption of the international accounting standards (IFRS) in Italy: effects on management decisions and on the economic and financial communication process), supported by the Italian Ministry of Education, University and Research, started in 2003 and conducted by Universities of Parma, Brescia, Genova, Napoli and Pisa (co-ordinated by University of Parma).

Keywords: Consolidated financial statements, IFRS, Italian listed companies, First time adoption

Suggested Citation:

Marchini, Pier Luigi and Andrei, Paolo and Tibiletti, Veronica, The Impact of the Adoption of International Financial Accounting Standards (IFRS) on Consolidated Financial Statements of Italian Enterprises (2005). 28th EAA Annual Congress, May 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1630460 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1630460
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Adamo S
Problemi di armonizzazione dell'informazione contabile Posted: 2001
Andrei P. -Azzali S. -Bisaschi A. -Fellegara A M Le Aggregazioni Di , Impresa
Posted: 1999
Azzali S
Il bilancio consolidato secondo i principi contabili internazionali Posted: 2002
Azzali S
Il bilancio consolidato secondo i principi contabili internazionali Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
540
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,262
RANK
118,334
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies