Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Israeli XBRL Adoption Experience

21 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2010

Ariel J. Markelevich

Suffolk University - Department of Accounting

Lewis Shaw

Suffolk University

Hagit Weihs

Brandeis University - International Business School

Date Written: June 30, 2010

Abstract

eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) is a language for the electronic communication of business and financial data which is revolutionizing business reporting around the world. It is a tool to bridge potential language barriers and unify financial reporting. This has appeal to foreign investors among others, who can rely on information in XBRL-tagged financial reports to make investment decisions without having to translate financial statements from local language. In 2008, Israel required most public companies to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for financial reporting and all public companies to use XBRL-tagged reporting format, as part of an aggressive effort to make its capital markets more transparent and attractive for foreign investors.

In this paper we study all Israeli public companies and analyze their XBRL-tagged financial statements that are available on MAGNA, the Israel Securities Authority’s electronic system. We describe the unique process by which the XBRL-based data was collected and reported. In addition we examine these companies’ original full body Hebrew-based financial statements. We document deficiencies in the XBRL-tagged filings, and inconsistencies between them and the Hebrew-based annual reports. Further, we conduct numerous interviews with professionals in the American and Israeli financial communities to gain additional insight on the conversion. This unique analysis allows us to better understand the benefits and challenges of the adoption of XBRL, particularly when coupled with the adoption of IFRS.

Keywords: XBRL, IFRS, Data Error, Data transformation

JEL Classification: M41, O33

Suggested Citation:

Markelevich, Ariel J. and Shaw, Lewis and Weihs, Hagit, An Analysis of the Israeli XBRL Adoption Experience (June 30, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1632562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1632562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Statement of Position 09-I: Performaing agreed-upon procedures engagements that address the completeness, accuracy, or consistency of XBRL-tagged data Posted: 2009
Jon W. Bartley , Y. Al Chen , Eileen Zalkin Taylor
A Comparison of XBRL Filings to Corporate 10-Ks - Evidence from the Voluntary Filing Program
Pages: 51 Posted: 1 May 2009 Last revised: 26 Jul 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Efrim Boritz , Won Gyun No
SEC's XBRL Voluntary Program on Edgar: The Case for Quality Assurance
Pages: 16 Posted: 4 Sep 2008 Last revised: 26 Jul 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R S Debreceny , A Chandra , J J Cheh , D Guithues-Amrhein , N Hannon , P D Hutchson
Financial reporting in XBRL on the SEC's EDGAR system : a critique and evaluation
Journal of Information Systems , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 210 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Tienshih Hsieh , Jean C. Bedard
Impact of XBRL on Voluntary Adopters' Financial Reporting Quality and Cost of Equity Capital
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 45 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Fabio La Rosa , Carlo Caserio
Accounting Information Systems for Decision Making
, volume 3 , p. 13 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Ariel J. Markelevich , Stephen Fuller , Andrew Stuart
Regulatory Implementation Choices: The Case of XBRL
45 Pages · Posted: 6 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 18 Sep 2024 · Downloads: 188
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,490
RANK
119,199
3 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies