Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unintended Consequences of Changing Accounting Standards: The Case of Fair Value Accounting and Mandatory Dividends

40 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2010 Last revised: 12 Mar 2014

Igor Goncharov

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Sander van Triest

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School

Date Written: March 12, 2014

Abstract

A growing body of literature investigates the interaction of changes in accounting standards with institutions such as investor protection laws and corporate governance mechanisms. We examine the unintended consequences of fair value accounting in determining mandated preferred dividends. We study the case of Russian energy conglomerate UES, which had a good corporate governance track record and a consistent dividend history. Following its adoption of fair value accounting, UES reported the highest quarterly profit in world corporate history, but it subsequently omitted dividends for all its shareholders. The case analysis suggests that the transitory nature of fair value adjustments and the interaction with the investment policy were important considerations in justifying the dividend omission. The reduction in preferred dividends was not offset by any capital gains, and led to a wealth transfer from preferred to ordinary shareholders. Thus, requiring the use of fair value accounting when determining the dividend distribution base can lead to unintended consequences, and increase agency costs for minority shareholders.

Keywords: dividend policy, fair value accounting, IFRS, mandatory dividends

JEL Classification: M41, G35, G38, P21

Suggested Citation:

Goncharov, Igor and van Triest, Sander, Unintended Consequences of Changing Accounting Standards: The Case of Fair Value Accounting and Mandatory Dividends (March 12, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1634790 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1634790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
J Aharony , I Swary
Quarterly Dividend and Earnings Announcements and Stockholders' Returns: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Finance , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1980
Crossref
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Anonymous
Courting Disaster -Russia's Dismal Investment Climate
Economist Posted: 2009
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,127
RANK
134,221
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies