Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Quality and Investment Efficiency of Private Firms in Emerging Markets

55 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2010 Last revised: 3 Nov 2010

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Qingyuan Li

Wuhan University - School of Economics and Management

Xin Wang

The University of Hong Kong

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 2, 2010

Abstract

Prior research shows that financial reporting quality (FRQ) is positively related to investment efficiency for large U.S. publicly traded companies. We examine the role of FRQ in private firms from emerging markets, a setting in which extant research suggests that FRQ would be less conducive to the mitigation of investment inefficiencies. Earlier studies show that private firms have lower FRQ, presumably because of lower market demand for public information. Prior research also shows that FRQ is lower in countries with low investor protection, bank-oriented financial systems, and stronger conformity between tax and financial reporting rules. Using firm-level data from the World Bank, our empirical evidence suggests that FRQ positively affects investment efficiency. We further find that the relation between FRQ and investment efficiency is increasing in bank financing and decreasing in incentives to minimize earnings for tax purposes. Such a connection between tax-minimization incentives and the informational role of earnings has often been asserted in the literature. We provide explicit evidence in this regard.

Keywords: Investment Efficiency, Under- and Over-Investment, Financial Reporting Quality, Private Firms, Emerging Markets, Financing Sources, Tax Incentives

JEL Classification: M41, F30, G30, G31, M10

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Li, Qingyuan and Wang, Xin, Financial Reporting Quality and Investment Efficiency of Private Firms in Emerging Markets (November 2, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1635425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1635425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R Bushman , A Smith
Financial accounting information and corporate governance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 237 - 333 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W Carlin , M E Schaffer , P Seabright
Where are the real bottlenecks? Evidence from 20,000 firms in 60 countries about the shadow costs of constraints to firm performance Posted: 2007
J G Cummins , K A Hassett , R O Hubbard
A reconsideration of investment behavior using tax reforms as natural experiments
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 74 Posted: 1994
Crossref
P Danos , D Holt , E A Imhoff
The use of accounting information in bank lending decisions
Accounting Organizations and Society , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 246 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,092
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,548
RANK
5,400
5 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does the Stock Market Harm Investment Incentives?

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Comparing the Investment Behavior of Public and Private Firms

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Does Public Ownership of Equity Improve Earnings Quality?

By Dan Givoly, Carla Hayn, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies