Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Multinational Analysis of Tax Rates and Economic Activity

Journal of International Business Research, 10(1), 95-113

22 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2010 Last revised: 26 Apr 2024

Lawrence C. Smith

Louisiana Tech University

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

William C. Gruben

Texas A&M International University

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

The relationship between taxes, particularly the income tax, and economic activity is a factor in the economic progress and development of a national economy. This study examines the relationship between the corporate income tax rate and economic activity in 30 countries, the members of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development. Results indicate that lower tax rates are associated with more favorable economic activity, including growth in GDP, lower unemployment, and higher savings. These findings suggest that at the micro-level, corporate managers should consider tax rates when deciding to locate or not locate business operations within a given country, especially if the goal is to locate where the economy is dynamic. At the macro-level, before making changes to tax law, policy makers should carefully consider how tax rates affect economic activity. For example, policy makers in the US Congress, at the time of this writing, are considering whether to allow the Bush tax cuts to expire in 2010. If the Congress allows that to happen, the outcome would effectively be the largest tax increase in US history.

Keywords: multinational, income tax, economics, tax policy, tax increase, corporate tax rate

JEL Classification: F23, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Lawrence C. and Smith, Murphy and Gruben, William C., A Multinational Analysis of Tax Rates and Economic Activity (2010). Journal of International Business Research, 10(1), 95-113, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1636010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J D R Adams , J Whalley
The International Taxation of Multinational Enterprises in Developed Countries Posted: 1977
H J Ault , D F Bradford
Taxing International Income: An Analysis of the US System and its Economic Premises" in (ed.) A. Razin and J. Slemrod Taxation in the Global Economy , p. 1 - 46 Posted: 1990
P Baccheta , M P Espinosa
Exchange of Information Clauses in International Tax Treaties
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 17 , p. 275 - 293 Posted: 2000
News
Sanctions Threat to 'Tax Havens
BBC News Posted: 2000-06-26
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,331
RANK
176,143
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Governance and Growth

By Mark Gradstein

Governance and Economic Growth

By Mark Gradstein

Corruption, Growth and Political Regimes: Cross Country Evidence

By Facundo Sepulveda and Fabio Mendez

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies