Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IAS 39 October 2008 Amendment as Another Opportunity of Earnings Management: An Analysis of the European Banking Industry

31 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2010

Alberto Quagli

Università degli Studi di Genova

Maurizio Ricciardi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 14, 2010

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate whether there is a relationship between earnings and capital management and the adoption of the October 2008 IAS 39 amendment using a sample of 71 publicly traded bank holding companies in the main European markets. We demonstrate the new reclassification possibilities and the consequent avoided losses are mainly used by companies with higher profitability and adopting in the past earnings management behavior. No significant relationship is found concerning capital management. This result gives further support to the studies of IFRS earning quality.

Keywords: IFRS, IAS 39, Fair Value, Earnings Management, Banking Industry

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Quagli, Alberto and Ricciardi, Maurizio, The IAS 39 October 2008 Amendment as Another Opportunity of Earnings Management: An Analysis of the European Banking Industry (July 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1639925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1639925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , Thomas S
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effect
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
V E Athanasakou , N C Strong , M Walker
Classificatory income smoothing: The impact of a change in regime of reporting financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 26 , p. 387 - 435 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Wolfgang Aussenegg , Petra Inwinkl , Georg Thomas Schneider
Earnings Management and Local vs. International Accounting Standards of European Public Firms
Pages: 52 Posted: 3 Dec 2008 Last revised: 1 Jun 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
977
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,013
RANK
54,090
7 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies