Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impacts of State Ownership on Information Asymmetry: Evidence from an Emerging Market

China Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Jul 2010 Last revised: 29 Sep 2010

Jongmoo Jay Choi

Temple University; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Temple University - International Business

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Haiyan Zhou

University of Texas - Pan American

Date Written: May 23, 2010

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the effect of corporate ownership on information asymmetry measured by bid-ask spread in the emerging markets of China. We find that government ownership has significant and positive impacts on bid-ask spread during the period of 1995-2000 which disappears afterward during the period of 2001-2003. The finding that state ownership raised bid-ask spread in the early period is consistent with recent studies on emerging markets including China, which indicate that firms with higher state ownership tend to have a greater deviation between cash flow rights and control rights (e.g., Wei et al., 2005). This implies that lower state ownership is associated with lower information asymmetry in the market, an economic consequence of significant economic reform and privatization regarding the market microstructure. However, with more active control transfers and emergence of private controlling shareholders, regulatory changes in ownership structure and corporate governance mechanisms, and thus an improved legal and institutional environment, the link between the government ownership and information asymmetry turns to be insignificant in the later period. These results have important implications for transparency and information disclosure policies as well as privatization in emerging markets.

Keywords: Bid-ask spread, Information asymmetry, Transparency, Adverse selection, Government (State) ownership, Emerging market (China)

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Jongmoo Jay and Sami, Heibatollah and Zhou, Haiyan, The Impacts of State Ownership on Information Asymmetry: Evidence from an Emerging Market (May 23, 2010). China Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1640103
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,559
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies