Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption and Policy Implications of Japan’s New Corporate Governance Practices after the Reform

Asia Pacific Journal of Management, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2010 Last revised: 25 Jul 2010

Masao Nakamura

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: May 16, 2010

Abstract

In this paper we explain the process and policy implications of Japanese firms' adoption of recently reformed corporate governance practices. We use a selective adaptation framework in doing so.

We present some qualitative predictions about the possible outcome of their adoption process. One advantage of our approach is that we can describe various aspects of the evolutionary process of Japan’s corporate governance reform as a system in a consistent manner, rather than as independent pieces. Our predictions provide policy implications and are empirically testable.

Japan’s post-bubble corporate governance reform has been extensive and involves the enactment and revisions of many relevant laws and affected institutions. Japan’s aim has been to install U.S.-like practices (the de facto global standard), with these practices replacing the now tarnished bank-centered practices, and to facilitate Japanese industry in regaining global competitiveness. However, we show that Japanese businesses’ adoption of U.S. practices has been selective and efficiency and other policy implications of such behavior are potentially dysfunctional.

Keywords: corporate governance reform, Japan, selective adaptation, efficiency, keiretsu

JEL Classification: G30, L20, M10

Suggested Citation:

Nakamura, Masao, Adoption and Policy Implications of Japan’s New Corporate Governance Practices after the Reform (May 16, 2010). Asia Pacific Journal of Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1641485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010-03
Crossref
M Aoki
Information, Incentives, and Bargaining in the Japanese Economy Posted: 1988
Crossref
T Araki
Corporate governance reforms, labor law developments, and the future of Japan's practicedependent stakeholder model
Japan Labor Review , volume 2 , p. 26 - 57 Posted: 2005
Y Arikawa , Y Mitsusada
The Adoption of Poison Pills and Managerial Entrenchment: Evidence from Japan Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,948
RANK
194,576
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Restructuring in Japan: Who Monitors the Monitor?

By Kotaro Inoue, Hideaki Kiyoshi Kato, ...

Japanese Corporate Governance Practices in the Post-Bubble Era: Implications of Institutional and Legal Reforms in the 1990s and Early 2000s

By Masao Nakamura

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies