Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Embeddedness and Control Choices

AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

26 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2010

Francesco Giacobbe

University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS School of Accounting; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

James Wakefield

University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS Business School

Date Written: August 13, 2010

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of corporate embeddedness on control choices of a multinational corporation over a wholly owned foreign subsidiary. Researchers and practitioners recognise that multinational corporation headquarters face significant challenges when controlling wholly owned foreign subsidiary operations due to physical distance and the need to adapt to operating in unfamiliar foreign markets. Despite this recognition limited research is available on this issue. Corporate embeddedness refers to the adaption of a subsidiary to other entities throughout the rest of the multinational corporation in terms of tangible and intangible resource flows. Corporate embeddedness appears a significant factor contributing to the viability and success of a wholly owned foreign subsidiary. Based on the transaction cost economies theory of management control this paper investigates the effect of corporate embeddedness on the headquarters’ choice of controls using Speklé (2001) control archetype framework. Specifically corporate embeddedness is linked to transactional attributes including uncertainty, asset specificity, opportunism and bounded rationality, to explore relationships with control archetype choice. The paper proposes that high corporate embeddedness is related to a machine control archetype. Data gathered from a case study of a highly corporately embedded subsidiary of a multinational corporation operating in a regulated consumer products sector is used to examine the link between corporate embeddedness and each of the transactional attributes, and their relationship with headquarters control choices. The evidence provides support to the proposition that high corporate embeddedness is related to machine control archetype. Although action and result oriented machine control archetypes are described separately by Speklé (2001), the controls used by the headquarters suggest a mix of both archetypes.

Keywords: Wholly owned foreign subsidiaries, corporate embeddedness, control, international operations

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Giacobbe, Francesco and Wakefield, James, Corporate Embeddedness and Control Choices (August 13, 2010). AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1658276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1658276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
M Abernethy , W Chua
Field Study of Control System Redesign: The Impact of Institutional Process on Strategic Choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 606 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens
Determinants of Control Systems Design in Divisionalized Firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Agbejule
The Relationship Between Management Accounting Systems and Perceived Environmental Uncertainty on Managerial Performance: A Research Note
Accounting and Business Research , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 295 - 305 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T Ahrens , J F Dent
Accounting and Organizations: Realizing the Richness of Field Research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,563
RANK
505,351
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies