Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Financial and Management Accounting After the IFRS Adoption: A Case from the Czech Republic

35 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2010

David Anthony Procházka

University of Economics, Prague

Date Written: May 21, 2010

Abstract

Latest research indicates that business and reporting process have been gradually integrated. As a reaction to growing complexity of business, innovations, global competition, higher mobility of capital and integrating capital markets, the convergence of financial and management accounting has been emerging. The integration is supported by the development of information and communication technology. Financial and management accounting converge on the various levels, e.g. on data recording, calculation level and/or output level. Those motivations for integration are typical especially for developed countries.

The transitional countries are in process of switching to standard accounting practice similar to those utilised in developed countries. Unfortunately, financial reporting is heavily influenced by the tax legislation, which impairs the usefulness of financial statements for decision-making of external users. Due to weaknesses of financial accounting and reporting regulation, entities reporting under local accounting standards are forced to remove those lacks at least on the management accounting level in order to prepare information needed for internal management and decision-making. The separate coexistence of management accounting and financial accounting is therefore inevitable under such circumstances.

The implementation of the IFRS into the legislation of the European Union and its member states has brought new quality to financial reporting, esp. in the transitional countries, despite the fact that the necessity to prepare information according to the IFRS levies additional costs on the companies. In order to lower the cost burden, the IFRS are becoming the leading principles of management accounting for internal users. The paper assumes that the IFRS are the driver for convergence of financial and management accounting in the transitional countries such as the Czech Republic.

Keywords: IFRS, Czech Accounting Standards, Duality and integration of financial and management accounting, Performance, Revenue

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Prochazka, David Anthony, The Development of Financial and Management Accounting After the IFRS Adoption: A Case from the Czech Republic (May 21, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1660122 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1660122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
 Abdel-Kader , M Luther , R
IFAC's Conception of the Evolution of Management Accounting
Advances in Management Accounting , volume 15 , p. 229 - 247 Posted: 2006
Crossref
N  Akman
The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Financial Disclosure: Does Culture Still Play a Role? Tampere, 32 nd Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association Posted: 2009
P Andre , I Tsalavoutas , L Evans
Transition to IFRS and Value Relevance in a Small but Developed Market: A Look at Greek Evidence. Tampere, 32 nd Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association Posted: 2009
H Angelkort , J Sandt , B E Weißenberger
Controllership under IFRS -Some Critical Observations from a German-Speaking Country Posted: 2008
Load more
3 Citations
Maria Rykaczewski , Maya Thevenot , Maria Vulcheva
International Accounting and Auditing Standards Adoption in the Eastern European Countries of the European Union: Review of Regulations and Literature
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 151 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Martin Dvořák , Libor Vašek
Are IFRS Really Global Standards of Financial Reporting? Analysis of Worldwide Jurisdiction Profiles
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 25 , p. 156 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Ayalew Ali Abebe
The effect of IFRS on the financial ratios: Evidence from banking sector in the emerging economy
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
824
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,648
RANK
68,328
3 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Impact of IFRS Adoption on Key Financial Ratios: Comparison of Selected European Countries

By Dana Kubickova and Irena Jindrichovska

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies