Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study on Factors Influencing the Adoption of Management Accounting Practices in Developing Countries: Evidence from Jordan

AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

23 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2010

Dr. Munther Al-Nimer

The Hashemite University ; Applied Science University - Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 19, 2010

Abstract

The research aims to provide a view of the present role of management accounting, to identify the extent of usage of management accounting practices (MAPs), to determine the sophistication level of MAPs by employing International Federation of Accountants model (IFAC) in the Jordanian financial sector, finally to investigate the effect of the contingent variables upon both the extent of usage and the sophistication level of MAPs.

To attain these objectives, the research used a questionnaire method; 64 valid questionnaires were returned, giving a 67.3% response rate. Several statistical analyses were used to analyse the responses, namely, descriptive analysis, bivariate correlation analysis (Kendall`s tau test and Kruskal-Wallis test), and multivariate statistical tests.

The research reveals that traditional practices are still widespread and highly used, rarely using the more sophisticated or advanced practices, and that there is a diversity of practices used in the financial sector context. In addition, the research reveals that the age of the company, net sale growth, number of employees, sophistication of operations, professional certificates, life cycle stages, and business type have a significant impact on the extent of usage of MAPs. Finally, it reveals that the age of the company, sophistication of operations, attendance of training courses, professional certificates, life cycle stages, and business type are the main contingency variables that influence the sophistication level of MAPs.

The research provides a broad overview of MAPs in the Jordanian financial sector, indicates is a lack of using MAPs in the developing countries. In addition, the research informs practitioners of the main variables that influence the usage and sophistication level of MAPs and of those variables that need to be taken into account when planning the adoption or development of management accounting systems.

Keywords: MAPs, IFAC model, contingency theory, financial sector, Developing countries

Suggested Citation:

Al-Nimer, Munther, An Exploratory Study on Factors Influencing the Adoption of Management Accounting Practices in Developing Countries: Evidence from Jordan (August 19, 2010). AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1661975 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1661975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
Management accounting practices in the British food and drinks industry
British Food Journal , volume 108 , issue 5 , p. 336 - 357 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
The impact of firm characteristics on management accounting practices: A UK-based empirical analysis
British Accounting Review , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 27 Posted: 2008
Crossref
O J Adelegan
Management accounting practices in Nigerian companies Posted: 2000
Ahmad B Abdel-Maksoud
Manufacturing in the UK: contemporary characteristics and performances indicators
Journal of manufacturing technological management , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 155 - 171 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
495
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,449
RANK
93,694
4 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Influencing Contingencies on Management Accounting Practices in Estonian Manufacturing Companies

By Toomas Haldma and Kertu Laats

Management Accounting Practices in the British Food and Drinks Industry

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

The Impact of Firm Characteristics on Management Accounting Practices: A UK-Based Empirical Analysis

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies