Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Comovement and Accounting Comparability: The Effects of Mandatory IFRS Adoption

Simon School Working Paper No. FR 11-03

55 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2010 Last revised: 15 Aug 2016

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Edward Owens

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Date Written: September 14, 2010

Abstract

We examine changes in cross-country financial statement comparability around mandatory IFRS adoption and the effects of these changes on firms’ information environments, as captured by analyst properties and bid-ask spreads. First, we show that cross-country earnings comovement is negatively associated with favorable properties of the firm-level information environment. In contrast, we show that cross-country accounting comparability is positively associated with favorable properties of the information environment. We further document that, whereas IFRS adoption increased cross-country earnings comovement, it did not increase accounting comparability relative to a control sample of non-adopting firms. Finally, we show directly that the increases in earnings comovement experienced by IFRS adopters have negative effects on firms’ information environments. This finding provides novel evidence that increases in earnings comovement associated with IFRS adoption diminished financial statement users’ ability to extract information from cross-country firm comparisons.

Keywords: Accounting, IFRS, Regulation, Comparability

JEL Classification: G15, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Mark H. and Maffett, Mark G. and Owens, Edward, Earnings Comovement and Accounting Comparability: The Effects of Mandatory IFRS Adoption (September 14, 2010). Simon School Working Paper No. FR 11-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1676937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1676937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
Accounting Review, Forthcoming Posted: 2009
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: the impact on foreign analysts
Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS: pros and cons for investors
Accounting & Business Research , p. 5 - 65 Posted: 2006
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,547
RANK
7,293
58 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies