Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
R&D Strategy, Performance and Earnings Management

22 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2010

Dhaoui Abderrazak

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ouidad Yousfi

Université de Montpellier

Date Written: September 15, 2010

Abstract

The current paper studies the determinants of R&D strategy and analyzes the effects of R&D decentralization on financial performance and earnings management. We use a sample of 160 U.S. Multinational companies (MNCs) between 2001 and 2006. Our results provide evidence that MNCs decentralize their R&D to improve firm profitability but mangers can take advantages to get some private and non transferable benefits which increases earnings management. Moreover, it seems that the presence of institutional investors and the use of performance-based compensation encourage managers to decentralize their R&D to increase earnings management.

Keywords: Decentralization, R&D, Performance, Earnings Management, Institutional investors, based-performance compensation, MNC

JEL Classification: G30, G38, F23, O32

Suggested Citation:

Abderrazak, Dhaoui and Yousfi, Ouidad, R&D Strategy, Performance and Earnings Management (September 15, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1677350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1677350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Agrawal , G Et Mandelker
Shark Repellents and the Role of Institutional Investors in Corporate Governance », Managerial and decisions economics , volume 13 , p. 15 - 22 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M Barclay , C Holderness
Journal of Finance , volume 46 , p. 861 - 878 Posted: 1991
Crossref
B Bathala , K P Moon , R P Rao
« Managerial Ownership, Debt Policy, and the Impact of Institutional Holdings: An Agency Perspective
Financial Management , volume 23 , p. 38 - 50 Posted: 1994
Crossref
J Belin , M Guille
Le financement de l'innovation et de la R&D en France: Evolutions récentes Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,638
RANK
357,528
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies