Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Benefits from the Adoption of IFRS?

18 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2010

Shin'ya Okuda

Nagoya City University

Date Written: September 28, 2010

Abstract

The research objective of this paper is to investigate when the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is beneficial to capital market participants. In particular, I specify the conditions in which firms’ managers and investors prefer IFRS to domestic accounting standards. This paper presents a competitive equilibrium model to demonstrate who would prefer IFRS to domestic accounting standards, and when. It shows that in certain conditions, there is a conflict between firms’ managers and investors, with regard to the adoption of IFRS. It also demonstrates that although the quality of accounting standards is an important condition, it does not necessitate IFRS preference by managers and investors. This sheds light on the fact that the ratio of foreign investors affects the decision.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, Disclosure, Cost of Capital, Competitive Equilibrium

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Okuda, Shin'ya, Who Benefits from the Adoption of IFRS? (September 28, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1684169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1684169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 795 - 841 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M T Bradshaw , B J Bushee , G S Miller
Accounting Choice, Home Bias, and U.S. Investment in Non-U.S. Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H B Christensen , E Lee , M Walker
Cross-sectional Variation in the Economic Consequences of International Accounting Harmonization: The Case of Mandatory IFRS Adoption in the UK
International Journal of Accounting , volume 42 , p. 341 - 379 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,678
RANK
136,211
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies