Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the Adoption of IFRS Encourage Cross-Border Investment?

26 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2010 Last revised: 6 Oct 2010

Gladys Lee

University of Melbourne

Neil L. Fargher

Australian National University (ANU)

Date Written: October 5, 2010

Abstract

Proponents of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) claimed that the adoption of IFRS would lead to more efficient capital allocation through greater cross-border investment. This study examines whether the adoption of IFRS is associated with an increase in the level of investment in foreign equities held by Australian investors. The results show that the adoption of IFRS is associated with greater cross-border equity investment. The results are consistent with investors benefitting from a reduction in information asymmetry through an increase in the comparability of financial reports.

Keywords: IFRS, home bias, foreign investment

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Gladys and Fargher, Neil L., Did the Adoption of IFRS Encourage Cross-Border Investment? (October 5, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1686571 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1686571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A G Ahearne , W L Griever , F E Warnock
Information costs and home bias: An analysis of US holdings of foreign equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Amir Andrew Amadi
Equity Home Bias: A Disappearing Phenomenon?
Pages: 37 Posted: 21 Oct 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
778
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,446
RANK
73,815
6 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies