Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Listing Location: A Study of MNCS and Stock Exchanges in Eight Countries

Journal of International Business Studies, Vol. 26, No. 2, pp. 319-341, 1995

23 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2010 Last revised: 9 Nov 2010

Shahrokh M. Saudagaran

University of Washington, Tacoma - Milgard School of Business

Gary C. Biddle

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics; Columbia Business School; HKU Business School; London Business School

Date Written: March 5, 1995

Abstract

This study aims to enhance our understanding of multiple listings by addressing the where question related to foreign listings. It examines factors that influence firms' choices of foreign stock excanges. Based on a sample of 459 internationally traded MNCs, with at least one foreign listing on one of nine major stock exchanges (in eight countries) at year-end 1992, we find strong evidence that foreign listing locations are significantly influenced by 1) financial disclosure levels, and 2) the level of exports to a given foreign country.

Suggested Citation:

Saudagaran, Shahrokh M. and Biddle, Gary C., Foreign Listing Location: A Study of MNCS and Stock Exchanges in Eight Countries (March 5, 1995). Journal of International Business Studies, Vol. 26, No. 2, pp. 319-341, 1995 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1687534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,728
RANK
342,603
13 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies