Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Timing Equity Issuance in Response to Information Asymmetry Arising from IFRS Adoption in Australia and Europe

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

60 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2010

Shiheng Wang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Michael Welker

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: October 4, 2010

Abstract

This study examines the association between changes in reported financial performance resulting from mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and equity issuance during the transition period leading up to IFRS adoption for listed firms in Australia and Europe. We hypothesize that firms affected by the accounting standards change strategically time equity issuance around the time the firm discloses the effects of IFRS adoption on reported financial performance. We document circumstances where market returns are associated with the reconciliation of net income between local GAAP and IFRS. We find that a firm’s likelihood of equity issuance and equity issue size during the three years prior to the IFRS reconciliation disclosure are negatively associated with the unexpected change in net income resulting from the conversion to IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS, financial statement reconciliations, information asymmetry, market timing, equity issuance

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Shiheng and Welker, Michael, Timing Equity Issuance in Response to Information Asymmetry Arising from IFRS Adoption in Australia and Europe (October 4, 2010). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1687440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E ; T S Amir , E K Harris; , Venuti
A Comparison of the Value-Relevance of US versus Non-US GAAP Accounting Measures Using Form 20-F Reconciliation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
François Aubert , Pascal Dumontier
Analyzing Brokers’ Expertise: Did Analysts Fully Anticipate the Impact of IFRS Adoption on Earnings? The European Evidence
Pages: 26 Posted: 17 Jun 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M ; J Baker , J Stein; , Wurgler
When does the Stock Market Matter? Stock Prices and the Investment of Equity-Dependent Firms
Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 969 - 1005 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS: Pros and Cons for Investors
Accounting & Business Research , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Load more
3 Citations
Benedikt Downar , Jürgen Ernstberger , Christopher Fritz
More Frequent Disclosure and Capital Structure
48 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 204
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fani Kalogirou , Paraskevi Vicky Kiosse , Peter F. Pope
Pension Deficits and Corporate Financial Policy: Does Accounting Transparency Matter?
Forthcoming, European Accounting Review · 82 Pages · Posted: 31 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 133
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thomas Kaspereit
Event Studies with Daily Stock Returns in Stata: Which Command to Use?
The Stata Journal, Volume 21 Number 2: pp. 462-497 · 34 Pages · Posted: 16 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 17 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 2,121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,910
RANK
217,471
3 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies