Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Conference Calls on Analysts' Forecasts - German Evidence

European Accounting Review, Volume 22, Issue 1, May 2013

42 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2010 Last revised: 8 May 2013

Moritz Bassemir

Goethe University Frankfurt

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Julian Pachta

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: October 31, 2011

Abstract

This study examines whether conference calls provide additional information to analysts. For a large sample of conference calls, hosted by German firms between 2004 and 2007, our results show that conference calls improve analysts’ ability to forecast future earnings accurately. This suggests that additional information is released during conference calls. The reduction in forecast error is economically significant and larger in magnitude when compared to results for the US (Bowen et al., 2002). These findings are consistent with the notion that commiting to additional disclosures is likely to yield greater effects in a less stringent disclosure system (Verrecchia, 2001). Since the majority of our sample firms conduct conference calls as closed calls, the evidence of this paper suggests that conference calls may contribute to an information gap between call participants and non-invited parties. Our findings should be of substantial interest to European regulators seeking to level the informational playing field for all investors.

Keywords: Analyst Conferences, Conference Calls, Disclosure Regulation, Financial Analysts, Forecast Accuracy, Information Environment

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G18, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bassemir, Moritz and Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán and Pachta, Julian, The Effect of Conference Calls on Analysts' Forecasts - German Evidence (October 31, 2011). European Accounting Review, Volume 22, Issue 1, May 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1691183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
James S. Ang , Stephen J. Ciccone
International Differences in Analyst Forecast Properties
Pages: 57 Posted: 2 Jul 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
O E Barron , D Byard , O Kim
Changes in Analysts' Information around Earnings Announcements , volume 77 , p. 821 - 846 Posted: 2002
Crossref
O E Barron , D Byard , Y Yu
Evidence that Financial Statement Information Beyond that of Earnings Complements Analysts' Private Information Posted: 2009
Crossref
O E Barron , D G Harris , M Stanford
Evidence that Investors Trade on Private Event-Period Information around Earnings Announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 403 - 421 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,586
RANK
142,697
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies