Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Financial Analysts’ Information Environment

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2010 Last revised: 27 Oct 2010

Donal Byard

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Ying Li Compton

Securities and Exchange Commission; PwC; George Washington University - School of Business

Yong Yu

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: October 16, 2010

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by the European Union on financial analysts' information environment. To control for the effect of confounding concurrent events, we use a control sample of firms that had already voluntarily adopted IFRS at least two years prior to the mandatory adoption date. We find that analysts' absolute forecast errors and forecast dispersion decrease relative to this control sample only for those mandatory IFRS adopters domiciled in countries with both strong enforcement regimes and domestic accounting standards that differ significantly from IFRS. Further, for mandatory adopters domiciled in countries with both weak enforcement regimes and domestic accounting standards that differ significantly from IFRS, we find that forecast errors and dispersion decrease more for firms with stronger incentives for transparent financial reporting. These results highlight the important roles of enforcement regimes and firm-level reporting incentives in determining the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption.

Keywords: IFRS, Mandatory Adoption, Financial Analysts, Information Environment, Enforcement, Reporting Incentives

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Byard, Donal and Compton, Ying Li and Compton, Ying Li and Yu, Yong, The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Financial Analysts’ Information Environment (October 16, 2010). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1693003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
92 Citations
Ulf Brüggemann , Joerg-Markus Hitz , Thorsten Sellhorn
Intended and Unintended Consequences of Mandatory IFRS Adoption: A Review of Extant Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
European Accounting Review, Vol. 22, Issue 1, pp. 1-37, 2013 · 47 Pages · Posted: 29 Sep 2010 · Last revised: 22 Apr 2013 · Downloads: 2,125
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Holger Daske , Luzi Hail , Christian Leuz , Rodrigo S. Verdi
Adopting a Label: Heterogeneity in the Economic Consequences Around IAS/IFRS Adoptions
66 Pages · Posted: 12 Apr 2007 · Last revised: 12 Mar 2013 · Downloads: 5,089
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mark DeFond , Mingyi Hung , Siqi Li , Yinghua Li
Does Mandatory IFRS Adoption Affect Crash Risk?
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 29 Nov 2011 · Last revised: 5 Jan 2015 · Downloads: 1,049
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Amanda M. Grossman , Murphy Smith , Wayne Tervo
Measuring the Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards on Market Performance of Publicly Traded Companies
Advances in Accounting, Vol. 29, No. 2, December 2013: 343-349 · 28 Pages · Posted: 19 Jul 2012 · Last revised: 6 Feb 2014 · Downloads: 540
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,283
RANK
33,191
92 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies