Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relaxing the Reconciliation Requirement in Non-U.S. Firms' SEC Filings: Firm Incentives and Changes in Earnings Informativeness, and Earnings Attributes

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

Emory Public Law Research Paper No. 10-134

Emory Law and Economics Research Paper No. 10-86

50 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2010 Last revised: 18 Nov 2013

Bowe Hansen

Virginia Commonwealth University

Grace Pownall

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Rachna Prakash

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Maria Vulcheva

Florida International University

Date Written: September 18, 2012

Abstract

We investigate the changes in earnings information content and earnings attributes, for non-U.S. firms listed in U.S. equity markets, following the 2007 relaxation of the SEC requirement to reconcile IFRS earnings and stockholders’ equity to U.S. GAAP in annual regulatory filings. We analyze a sample of non-U.S. firms listed on U.S. exchanges that use IFRS, domestic GAAP, or U.S. GAAP from 2005 to 2008. Prior literature finds no changes in informativeness following the regulation for IFRS-using firms. However, when we partition the IFRS-using firms into two groups based on managers’ incentives to provide informative disclosures, we find that those firms with incentives to be more informative had significant increases in the information content of their earnings. Furthermore, we do not find any decrease in information content of earnings for firms without such incentives. We also document that this change in earnings informativeness was contemporaneous with a change in earnings attributes.

Suggested Citation:

Hansen, Thomas Bowe and Pownall, Grace and Prakash, Rachna and Vulcheva, Maria, Relaxing the Reconciliation Requirement in Non-U.S. Firms' SEC Filings: Firm Incentives and Changes in Earnings Informativeness, and Earnings Attributes (September 18, 2012). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Emory Public Law Research Paper No. 10-134, Emory Law and Economics Research Paper No. 10-86, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1694498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1694498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An Exploratory Study of the Valuation Properties of CrossListed Firms' IAS and U.S. GAAP Earnings and Book Value
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in Four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Silvia Angeloni
Cautiousness on convergence of accounting standards across countries
Corporate Communications: An International Journal , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 246 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,628
RANK
225,151
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emory University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies