Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Which Analysts Benefited Most from Mandatory IFRS Adoption in Europe?

Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming

This paper is a significantly revised version of the paper titled "Mandatory Adoption of IFRS and Analysts’ Forecasts Information Properties", and which was known as CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2010-112.

Posted: 9 Nov 2010 Last revised: 18 Aug 2017

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Philip Joos

Tilburg University; TIAS School for Business and Society

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Sofie Van der Meulen

Catholic University of Lille - IÉSEG School of Management, Lille Campus

Date Written: August 17, 2017

Abstract

This study examines whether financial analysts’ research structure and portfolio selection choices helped in improving relative earnings forecast accuracy around mandatory IFRS adoption in Europe. Using a sample of 68,665 one-year ahead forecasts for 1,980 publicly listed firms, we find that market-wide mandatory IFRS adoption in the European Union resulted in a significant improvement in the relative forecast accuracy of sector specialists compared to generalists, while country specialists retained a relative accuracy advantage independent of the period of study. Moreover, sector specialists outperformed generalists especially for firms with large local GAAP to IFRS income reconciliations in the first-time IFRS adoption year and when analysts’ research portfolios prior to IFRS adoption exhibited high variability in local GAAP reporting practices. Additional analysis indicates that IFRS enabled analysts to initiate coverage of more firms, especially smaller ones, in their sector of specialization. Overall, our results are consistent with the notion that mandatory IFRS adoption in Europe reduced information processing costs and enlarged the within-industry valuation scope.

Keywords: relative forecast accuracy; mandatory IFRS adoption; analyst specialization

JEL Classification: G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Beuselinck, Christof and Joos, Philip and Khurana, Inder and Van der Meulen, Sofie, Which Analysts Benefited Most from Mandatory IFRS Adoption in Europe? (August 17, 2017). Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming, This paper is a significantly revised version of the paper titled "Mandatory Adoption of IFRS and Analysts’ Forecasts Information Properties", and which was known as CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2010-112., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1705402
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,551
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies