Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Conservatism in Pre- and Post- IFRS Periods in Turkey: Panel Data Evidence on the Firm Specific Factors

Journal of Accounting and Management Information Systems, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 403-421, 2010

Posted: 26 Nov 2010 Last revised: 29 Nov 2010

Cagnur Kaytmaz Balsari

Dokuz Eylul University

Serdar Ozkan

American University of the Middle East

Mustafa Gurol Durak

Yasar University

Date Written: September 1, 2010

Abstract

In order to increase the usefulness and quality of financial reporting, there is a move to IFRS globally. Sharing similar motivations with the rest of the world, since 2005 all publicly traded companies in Turkey have been preparing their financial statements according to International Accounting/Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) mandatory.

Considering the need for understanding the economic consequences of harmonization, we investigate the impact of IFRS adoption on the earnings conservatism as a dimension of reporting quality in Turkey.

The results of the study show that IFRS adoption has increased both the timeliness and earnings conservatism (asymmetric timeliness), the impact is stronger for financial firms, for firms having lower debt levels, and for smaller firms.

Keywords: Turkey, IFRS, Earnings Conservatism, Panel Data

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kaytmaz Balsari, Cagnur and Ozkan, Serdar and Durak, Mustafa Gurol, Earnings Conservatism in Pre- and Post- IFRS Periods in Turkey: Panel Data Evidence on the Firm Specific Factors (September 1, 2010). Journal of Accounting and Management Information Systems, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 403-421, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1714386
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,832
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Single Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies