Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Default Risk Under IFRS 9

31 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2010

Erich Pummerer

University of Innsbruck - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Marcel Steller

University of Innsbruck - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Johannes Elgeti

University of Innsbruck - Department of Auditing and Accounting

Date Written: November 30, 2010

Abstract

Financial crises induced an intense debate about different accounting models for credit losses and a large number of contributions in literature. A gap between accounting research and finance was revealed. Within this gap our paper is focused on accounting for default risk of bonds according to IAS 39 vs. the exposure draft of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Amortised Cost and Impairment. For our analysis we use a simple multi-period structural binomial model for credit default risk.

The analysis shows that information given by ED IFRS 9 leads to a more fair value conform accounting, but is still insufficient to avoid unfavorable investment decisions because no unique decomposition in prerequisite decision parameters is possible.

We explain why a market oriented way of reporting for default risk by incorporating the value of a total return swap could overcome the disadvantages of unverifiable and therefore non auditable measures for credit default risk.

Keywords: Credit Default Risk, Accounting, IFRS 9, Bankruptcy

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Pummerer, Erich and Steller, Marcel and Elgeti, Johannes, Accounting for Default Risk Under IFRS 9 (November 30, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1717988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1717988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
V V Acharya , T C Johnson
Insider trading in credit derivatives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 84 , p. 110 - 141 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M E Barth , Barth , W R Landsman
How did financial reporting contribute to the financial crisis?
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 423 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Borio , K Tsatsaronis
Accounting and prudential regulation: from uncomfortable bedfellows to perfect partners?
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 135 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Constantinides
Theory of Valuation,: Overview and Recent Developments
Eds) theory of valuation , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
857
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,025
RANK
64,857
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Insider Trading in Credit Derivatives

By Viral V. Acharya and Timothy C. Johnson

Insider Trading in Credit Derivatives

By Viral V. Acharya and Timothy C. Johnson

Does Insider Trading Raise Market Volatility?

By Julan Du and Shang-jin Wei

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies