Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National Standards and European Accounting Harmonization: Twenty Years of Scientific Literature in Review

European Journal of Management, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp.10-21, 2009

12 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2010

Liliana Feleagă

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Niculae Feleagă

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Voicu D. Dragomir

Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Date Written: December 7, 2010

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to assess the current knowledge base on financial accounting standardization in EU Member States. Our review of more than 50 articles reveals the methodological diversity of the dedicated literature, from conceptual to empirical, with all shades in between. We adopted a cross-sectional/longitudinal classification for articles available in three scientific databases. Our review indicates that for the majority of EU Member States there is no updated information on national accounting systems. Most of the empirical contributions refer to regulatory frameworks effective in the 1990s or in the early 2000s. In this context, can we find any actual relevance for previous literature in the context of contemporary research?

Keywords: European Union, accounting harmonization, national standard-setting, literature review, comparative accounting

Suggested Citation:

Feleagă, Liliana and Feleagă, Niculae and Dragomir, Voicu D., National Standards and European Accounting Harmonization: Twenty Years of Scientific Literature in Review (December 7, 2010). European Journal of Management, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp.10-21, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1721790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
A Agami , N Monsen , D Alexander , S Archer
An Appraisal of Efforts by the Nordic Countries Toward Accounting Standards Harmonization
Journal of International Accounting Auditing & Taxation
Crossref
E K Jermakowicz , S Gornik-Tomaszewski
Implementing IFRS from the perspective of EU publicly
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,780
RANK
279,629
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies