Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Consequences on Accounting Conservatism within Europe

CAAA Annual Conference 2011

Posted: 15 Dec 2010

Charles Piot

Univ. Grenoble Alpes; University of Angers - Centre de Recherches Appliquées à la Gestion (CERAG)

Rémi Janin

University of Grenoble and CERAG-CNRS

Pascal Dumontier

University of Grenoble; University of Angers - Centre de Recherches Appliquées à la Gestion (CERAG)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 13, 2010

Abstract

We investigate the effects of mandatory IFRS adoption in the EU on accounting conservatism, an essential feature of earnings quality, and the way large audit firms (Big 4) interact with it. We use an extensive database of more than 5,000 IFRS adopters from 22 EU countries, observed over 2001-2008. The main findings are that: 1) conditional conservatism, as proxied by the asymmetric timeliness of bad vs. good news, has decreased under IFRS, notably among Big 4 audits; 2) the country-level magnitude of this IFRS effect is positively associated with the distance between IFRS and pre-existing local GAAP; 3) Big 4 auditors are associated with more aggressive earnings under IFRS, with simultaneous increase (decrease) in good (bad) news timeliness; 4) the cross-country variability in timeliness metrics is significantly lower among Big 4 vs. non-Big 4 audits, whatever the reporting regime (local GAAP or IFRS); and 5) unconditional conservatism is higher under IFRS in the presence of a Big 4 auditor. Taken together, these findings suggest that the EU-wide mandatory IFRS adoption has hampered accounting quality, and then strongly challenge the one size fits all principle.

Keywords: Mandatory IFRS adoption, Earnings quality, Conservatism, Big 4 audits, European Union

JEL Classification: M48, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Piot, Charles and Janin, Rémi and Dumontier, Pascal, IFRS Consequences on Accounting Conservatism within Europe (December 13, 2010). CAAA Annual Conference 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1724635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1724635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
Anwer S. Ahmed , Bruce K. Billings , Mary Stanford , Richard M. Morton
Accounting Conservatism and Cost of Debt: An Empirical Test of Efficient Contracting
Pages: 36 Posted: 25 Apr 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Alexander , B Eirle , C Hutten
The auditor as standard-setter: Some US evidence and its implication. 29 th congress of the Francophone Accounting Association
ESSEC Business School Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
955
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,106
RANK
14,706
10 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies