Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Incentives to Disclose Carbon Information: Evidence from Global 500

42 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2010

Le Luo

Macquarie University

Yi-Chen Lan

Western Sydney University

Qingliang Tang

University of Western Sydney

Date Written: December 14, 2010

Abstract

We investigate how the Global 500 companies respond to the challenge of climate change with regard to carbon disclosure strategy. This paper is motivated by a growing body of research that examines the role of large companies in carbon disclosure responsibility and practices. Based on the previous research, we consider the impact of economic, regulatory, social and financial market factors on motivation of Global 500 to voluntarily disclose carbon information in Carbon Disclosure Project in 2009. We find that the economic factor is significantly associated with the voluntary carbon disclosure decision. That is, companies that face direct economic consequence are more likely to disclose carbon related information. Companies in carbon intensive sectors show the same tendency. In addition, large companies have more propensity to disclose carbon information, suggesting social or political pressure plays an important role in such a decision. In addition, we provide evidence of why a large proportion of our sample Global 500 firms refuse to disclose carbon information. Our results suggest the information needs of investors for carbon footprints do not appear relevant to the carbon disclosure decision. In sum, the tendency of Global 500 to disclose carbon information is likely explained by economic and social pressure, and the major driving force for climate change disclosure comes from the general public and government, rather than other major stakeholders such as shareholders and debtholders. Our results are robust after controlling other influences.

Keywords: Carbon Emission Disclosure, Corporate Incentives, Global 500

JEL Classification: Q54, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Le and Lan, Yi-Chen and Tang, Qingliang, Corporate Incentives to Disclose Carbon Information: Evidence from Global 500 (December 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1725106 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1725106
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
K Bewley , Y Li
Disclosure of environmental information by Canadian manufacturing companies: a voluntary disclosure perspective
Advances in Environmental Accounting and Management , volume 1 , p. 201 - 226 Posted: 2000
Crossref
W Blacconiere , W Dana Northcut
Environmental information and market reactions to environmental legislation
Journal of Accounting Auditing and Finance , volume 12 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Carbon disclosure project 2009 global 500 report
CDP Posted: 2009
Crossref
C Cho , D Patten
The role of environmental disclosures as tools of legitimacy: A research note
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 32 , p. 639 - 647 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
541
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,163
RANK
117,784
6 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Revisiting the Relation between Environmental Performance and Environmental Disclosure: An Empirical Analysis

By Yue Li, Peter Clarkson, ...

Revisiting the Relation between Environmental Performance and Environmental Disclosure: An Empirical Analysis

By Yue Li, Peter Clarkson, ...

The Relations Among Environmental Disclosure, Environmental Performance, and Economic Performance: A Simultaneous Equations Approach

By Sulaiman Al-tuwaijri, Theodore E. Christensen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies