Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives Quality of Firm Risk Disclosure? The Impact of a National Disclosure Standard and Reporting Incentives under IFRS

The International Journal of Accounting, Vol.47, No.4, pp. 437-468

47 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2010 Last revised: 10 Jan 2013

Antti Miihkinen

University of Turku - Turku School of Economics; Aalto University School of Business

Date Written: April 11, 2012

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of a detailed national disclosure standard on the quality of firms’ overall risk reviews under IFRS. We use data from a sample of listed Finnish firms around the introduction of the standard and find that national regulatory bodies have been able to raise the quality of risk disclosure on several dimensions even under IFRS. We find increases in the quantity of risk disclosure with more extensive and more comprehensive information. We do not, however, find a corresponding increase in quantitative disclosures and therefore there is some question regarding the influence of the standard on the substance of the risk information provided. In addition to the coercive effect of the standard, several important reporting incentives, such as firm size, profitability, and foreign listing status are documented. We also find some evidence that the impact of the standard on quality is more pronounced among less profitable firms. Additional findings are that larger firms and firms reporting under the requirements of the SEC disclose more quantitative risk information, and that the quality improvements are permanent in the subsequent years. The findings have implications for standard-setters evaluating different strategies with the aim to increase the quality of the narratives in annual reports.

Keywords: Risk reporting, Disclosure quality, Regulation, Reporting incentives

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Miihkinen, Antti and Miihkinen, Antti, What Drives Quality of Firm Risk Disclosure? The Impact of a National Disclosure Standard and Reporting Incentives under IFRS (April 11, 2012). The International Journal of Accounting, Vol.47, No.4, pp. 437-468, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1725538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
G Akerlof
The market for lemons: quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
551
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,980
RANK
115,106
17 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Relation Between Voluntary Disclosure and Financial Reporting: Evidence from Synthetic Leases

By Sarah L. C. Zechman

The Relation Between Voluntary Disclosure and Financial Reporting: Evidence from Synthetic Leases

By Sarah L. C. Zechman

The Determinants of Synthetic Lease Financing and the Impact on the Cost of Future Debt

By Jennifer Lynne M. Altamuro

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies