Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Accounting Convergence and the Potential Adoption of IFRS by the U.S. (Part II): Political Factors and Future Scenarios for U.S. Accounting Standards

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24, No. 4, pp. 567-588, 2010

Posted: 18 Dec 2010

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Peter D. Wysocki

Boston University Questrom School of Business

Date Written: December 16, 2010

Abstract

This is the second article of a two-part series analyzing the economic and policy factors related to the potential adoption of IFRS by the United States. In Part I (see Hail et al. 2010), we develop the conceptual framework for our analysis and discuss economic factors driving the costs and benefits associated with IFRS adoption. In this part, we provide an analysis of the political factors related to the possible U.S. adoption of IFRS, present several scenarios for the evolution of U.S. accounting standards, and outline opportunities for future research on global accounting standards and regulation. We start with a general discussion of the standard-setting process in accounting and how a U.S. switch to IFRS might affect worldwide competition among accounting standards and standard setters. We discuss potential political ramifications of such a decision on the standard-setting process in the United States, as well as on the governance structure of the International Accounting Standards Board. Drawing on our economic framework and the insights from our analysis, we conclude by outlining several possible ways of how U.S. accounting standards could evolve. These scenarios include maintaining U.S. GAAP, letting firms decide whether and when to adopt IFRS, mandating full compliance with IFRS within a prespecified schedule, or creating a competing U.S. GAAP-based set of accounting standards that could serve as a global alternative to IFRS.

Keywords: Accounting Regulation, Standard Setting, U.S. Equity Markets, Mandatory Disclosure, Political Economy, Harmonization

JEL Classification: F50, G15, G38, K22, M41, M48, O51

Suggested Citation:

Hail, Luzi and Leuz, Christian and Wysocki, Peter D., Global Accounting Convergence and the Potential Adoption of IFRS by the U.S. (Part II): Political Factors and Future Scenarios for U.S. Accounting Standards (December 16, 2010). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24, No. 4, pp. 567-588, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1726669
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,370
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies