Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association Between Earnings and Returns and Macroeconomic Performance: Evidence from Australia, the U.S., and China

Australian Accounting Review, March 2011

24 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2010 Last revised: 22 Sep 2011

Greg Clinch

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Zi Wei

Central University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 1, 2010

Abstract

We provide some initial descriptive and exploratory results concerning the earnings-returns relation in periods of poor versus strong macroeconomic performance. Based on data from three countries – Australia, the U.S., and China – our results indicate some differences for U.S. and Chinese firms, but not Australian firms. However the results for U.S. and Chinese firms are somewhat contradictory – U.S. (Chinese) firms generally exhibit a stronger (weaker) earnings-returns association in periods of both negative and strongly positive macroeconomic performance. These differences appear largely attributable to reported profits and not to losses. We find no evidence that poor earnings news released during periods such as the GFC is ‘punished’ relative to other periods.

Keywords: general economic conditions, the earnings-returns relation

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Clinch, Greg and Wei, Zi, The Association Between Earnings and Returns and Macroeconomic Performance: Evidence from Australia, the U.S., and China (October 1, 2010). Australian Accounting Review, March 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1726110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
P D Easton , M E Zmijewski
Cross-sectional Variation in the Stock Market Response to Accounting Earnings Announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , p. 117 - 141 Posted: 1989
Crossref
R N Freeman , S Y Tse
A Nonlinear Model of Security Price Responses to Unexpected Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 185 - 209 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Carla Hayn
The Information Content of Losses
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 20 , p. 125 - 153 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Marilyn F Johnson
Business Cycles and the Relation between Security Returns and Earnings
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 4 , p. 93 - 117 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,407
RANK
472,944
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies