Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Accounting Quality of European Banks

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2010

Günther Gebhardt

Goethe Universität Frankfurt am Main

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: December 15, 2010

Abstract

This paper examines the implications of mandatory IFRS adoption on the accounting quality of banks in twelve EU countries. Specifically, we analyse how the change in the recognition and measurement of banks’ main operating accrual item, the loan loss provision, affects income smoothing behaviour and timely loss recognition. We find that the restriction to recognize only incurred losses under IAS 39 significantly reduces income smoothing. This effect is less pronounced in countries with stricter bank supervision, widely dispersed bank ownership and for EU banks cross-listed in the US. This provides additional evidence that institutions matter in shaping financial reporting outcomes. Further, the application of the incurred loss approach results in less timely loan loss recognition implying delayed recognition of future expected losses. In the light of the ongoing financial crises it is questionable whether this is a desirable financial reporting outcome of mandatory IFRS adoption.

Keywords: IFRS, bank accounting, loan loss provisions, income smoothing, timeliness of loss recognition, bank regulation, ownership structure

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gebhardt, Günther and Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán, Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Accounting Quality of European Banks (December 15, 2010). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1732166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: A re-examination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in U.K. private firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
901
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,468
RANK
60,492
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies