Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of IFRS Mandatory Disclosure Requirements

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 15. Issue 1, 2014 (Highly Commended Paper of 2014)

Posted: 7 Jan 2011 Last revised: 21 May 2015

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Dionysia Dionysiou

University of Stirling

Date Written: May 20, 2015

Abstract

Purpose: We address recent calls for research regarding the valuation implications of mandatory disclosure requirements (cf. Hassan et al., 2009; Leuz and Wizocki, 2008; Schipper, 2007).

Design: We measure compliance with all IFRS mandatory disclosure requirements for a sample of firms. We subsequently explore whether the compliance scores (i.e. the mandatory disclosure levels) are value relevant and whether the value relevance of accounting numbers differs across high and low compliance/disclosure companies.

Findings: We find that the levels of mandatory disclosures are value relevant. Additionally, not only the relative value relevance (i.e. R2) but also the valuation coefficient of net income of high compliance companies is significantly higher than that of low-compliance companies.

Limitations: This paper is an indicative single country case study that focuses on the IFRS adoption year (2005) in the EU. It forms a new avenue for research regarding the valuation implications of mandatory disclosure requirements. It remains to future research to examine whether our findings also hold in other countries and periods.

Practical implications: These findings are expected to be particularly relevant to standard setters and regulatory bodies who are concerned about the implications of mandatory disclosure requirements (Schipper, 2007).

Originality/value: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper that examines the value relevance implications of IFRS mandatory disclosure requirements, focusing on European country after 2005. The findings indicate that IFRS mandatory disclosures do lead to more transparent financial statements (cf. Pownall and Schipper, 1999), mitigating concerns about companies’ fundamentals (cf. Anctil et al., 2004).

Keywords: Value relevance, compliance, IFRS, mandatory disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Dionysiou, Dionysia, Value Relevance of IFRS Mandatory Disclosure Requirements (May 20, 2015). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 15. Issue 1, 2014 (Highly Commended Paper of 2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1734753
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,879
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies