Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Impact on the Value Relevance of Intangible Assets

Australian Accounting Review, Vol. 18, No. 46, pp. 237-247, 2008

32 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2011

Keryn Chalmers

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Greg Clinch

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Jayne M. Godfrey

University of Auckland

Date Written: May 19, 2008

Abstract

We examine whether the value relevance of reported intangibles differs between financial reporting regimes pre- and post- adoption of Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards, AGAAP and AIFRS respectively. Using AIFRS and AGAAP measures of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for the same financial year and testing their association with share prices, we find evidence that AIFRS generally conveys incremental useful information for investors about goodwill. For aggregated identifiable intangible assets there is no evidence that AIFRS conveys information beyond that in AGAAP. In contrast, we find evidence that AGAAP provides incremental information for investors in relation to identifiable intangibles, but not goodwill.

Keywords: Intangible Assets, IFRS, Value relevance

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chalmers, Keryn and Clinch, Greg and Godfrey, Jayne M., Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Impact on the Value Relevance of Intangible Assets (May 19, 2008). Australian Accounting Review, Vol. 18, No. 46, pp. 237-247, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1734571
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
AASB 1047 Disclosing the Impacts of Adopting Australian Equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards
AASB Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Abrahams , B K Sidhu
The role of R&D capitalisations in firm valuation and performance measurement
Australian Journal of Management , volume 23 , p. 169 - 84 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 91 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K Ahmed , H Falk
The value relevance of management's policy choice of research and development expenditure reporting: Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 231 - 264 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
873
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,212
RANK
63,166
3 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Longitudinal Earnings Value Relevance and Intangible Assets: Evidence from Australian Firms, 1975-99

By John Goodwin

Accounting and Valuation: How Helpful are Recent Accounting Rule Changes?

By Bradford Cornell and Wayne R. Landsman

Towards Better Deterrence of Securities Fraud: Promoting Consistency in Sentencing Insider Traders

By Juliette Overland

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies