Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introduction of International Accounting Standards, Disclosure Quality and Accuracy of Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2011

Martin Glaum

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Jörg Baetge

University of Münster - Accounting Center

Alexander Grothe

University of Giessen

Tatjana Oberdoerster

University of Münster

Date Written: December 2010

Abstract

We examine whether the introduction of international accounting standards by German companies has improved the accuracy of analysts’ forecasts, and what role changes in the quality of disclosures have played in this process. We develop a structural equation model that allows us to separate the effects of changes in disclosure quality from other effects of the introduction of international accounting standards on forecast errors. Our sample comprises 1,908 firm-years covering the period from 1997 to 2005. We measure disclosure quality with data from a yearly annual-report competition. We find that the introduction of international accounting standards has been associated with a significant improvement in forecast accuracy. Increases in the quality of companies’ disclosures appear to have contributed to this improvement. However, the disclosure effect, while significant, explains only a small portion of the overall improvement in forecast accuracy. Further analyses show that differences in disclosure quality are more relevant for German GAAP companies than for IFRS/US-GAAP companies. Moreover, only the quality of notes to companies’ financial statements appears to matter to analysts; the quality of management reports appears to make no difference. Our results are robust to a variety of tests concerning the sample composition, the operationalisation of variables, and the estimation procedure.

Keywords: international accounting standards, disclosure, analysts, forecast error, structural equation model

Suggested Citation:

Glaum, Martin and Baetge, Jörg and Grothe, Alexander and Oberdoerster, Tatjana, Introduction of International Accounting Standards, Disclosure Quality and Accuracy of Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts (December 2010). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1734410
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
A H Adrem
Disclosure strategy and the number of analysts following a firm and analysts' earnings forecast characteristics
Essays on Disclosure Practices in SwedenCauses and Effects , p. 111 - 138 Posted: 1999
K.-H Armeloh
Die Berichterstattung im Anhang -Eine theoretische und empirische Untersuchung der Qualität der Berichterstattung im Anhang börsennotierter Kapitalgesellschaften Posted: 1996
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: conceptual, strategic and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
907
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,140
RANK
59,898
1 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies