Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Balance Sheet Adjustments Under First-Time IFRS Adoption and the Consequences for Earnings Quality

56 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2011

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: January 4, 2011

Abstract

We study the consequences of mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards for earnings quality. On transitioning from local GAAP to IFRS, firms can make strategic balance sheet adjustments that in turn affect future reported earnings. We predict that earnings quality after IFRS adoption depends on the measurement and recognition choices made at the time of first-time IFRS adoption. When firms “clean up” the balance sheet by eliminating accumulated accruals bloat they have greater scope for accounting discretion in the years immediately after first-time adoption. Using a large sample of international firms, we model strategic balance sheet adjustments occurring on mandatory IFRS adoption and establish evidence that these adjustments are negatively associated with earnings quality in subsequent periods. Overall, our evidence is consistent with uneven IFRS implementation and enforcement around the world.

Keywords: Mandatory IFRS adoption, earnings quality, enforcement, IFRS transition adjustments

JEL Classification: G10, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Pope, Peter F., Strategic Balance Sheet Adjustments Under First-Time IFRS Adoption and the Consequences for Earnings Quality (January 4, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1735009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1735009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D Aboody , M E Barth And R , Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Armstrong , M E Barth , A D J Jagolinzer And E , Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , And M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Balas , R Porta , F Lopez-De-Silanes , And A Shleifer
The divergence of legal procedures Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
15 Citations
Peter F. Pope , Stuart J. McLeay
The European IFRS experiment: objectives, research challenges and some early evidence
Accounting and Business Research , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 233 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Hussein Waleed Hussein , Dr. Ghani Dahham , Tanai Al-Zubaydi
REFLECTION OF LEAN LEADERSHIP BEHAVIORS IN ENHANCING THE STRATEGIC BALANCE OF BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS
International Journal of Research in Social Sciences and Humanities , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 406 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Danqing Young , Zili Zhuang
Relevance of Differences between Net Income based on IFRS and Domestic Standards for European Firms
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 41 , issue 3-4 , p. 297 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Lucy Huajing Chen , Inder K. Khurana
The Impact of Eliminating the Form 20-F Reconciliation on Shareholder Wealth: Evidence from U.S. Cross-Listed Firms
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 199 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,233
RANK
44,921
15 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies