Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hungary Introduces Special Taxes

European Taxation, Vol. 50, No. 12, pp. 545-549, 2010

6 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2011

Daniel Deak

Corvinus University of Budapest

Date Written: December 6, 2010

Abstract

To manage the state budget crisis, Hungary recently introduced special taxes (1) in respect of selected sectors of the economy and (2) on severance payments received by public servants. Although Hungary is not alone in this regard, what is unusual is the magnitude and brutality of the taxes in comparison to similar taxes introduced in other countries. It is no wonder that there have been heated debates both within and outside Hungary as to whether the government can successfully implement the taxes. This article provides a critical review of the new measures.

Keywords: Over-Taxation, Certainty Principle of Taxation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Deak, Daniel, Hungary Introduces Special Taxes (December 6, 2010). European Taxation, Vol. 50, No. 12, pp. 545-549, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1736624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,573
RANK
472,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Macroeconomic Issues & Challenges eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies