Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Post-Listing Performance and Private Sector Regulation: The Experience of the AIM

Chicago Booth Research Paper 13-14 (2013).

59 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2011 Last revised: 19 Aug 2016

Joseph Gerakos

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

We investigate the post-listing experience of companies raising capital on the London Stock Exchange’s Alternative Investment Market (AIM). The AIM is unique in that it is privately regulated and relies on Nominated Advisors (Nomads) who compete to bring new listings and provide ongoing regulatory oversight. We find that AIM firms significantly underperform firms on regulated exchanges in terms of post-listing returns and failure rates. The underperformance is similar to that of firms listing on the OTC Bulletin Board prior to SEC regulation. Underperformance is associated with abnormally high pre-listing accruals and post-listing reversals, and is more pronounced for firms raising capital. The choice of a “high quality” auditor or Nomad partially mitigates underperformance, suggesting that AIM firms have a limited ability to bond through commitments to more stringent oversight. Negative returns are particularly pronounced for firms with high proportions of retail investors.

Keywords: Securities Regulation, Post-IPO Performance, International Accounting

JEL Classification: F30, G18, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Gerakos, Joseph and Lang, Mark H. and Maffett, Mark G., Post-Listing Performance and Private Sector Regulation: The Experience of the AIM (July 1, 2013). Chicago Booth Research Paper 13-14 (2013)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1740809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1740809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
S Arcot , J Black , G Owen
From local to global: The rise of the AIM as a stock market for growing companies
London School of Economics and Political Science Posted: 2007
L Armitstead
LSE chief says London's AIM market at risk from 'jealous' Europe. Financial Times Posted: 2010-10-27
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality at initial public offerings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B Barber , J Lyon
Detecting long-run abnormal stock returns: The empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 372 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,649
RANK
37,621
9 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies