Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are IFRS Income Statements Comparable?

30 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2011

Christopher Hossfeld

ESCP Europe

Date Written: January 15, 2011

Abstract

One objective of IFRS is to have comparable financial statements, including their presentations, between companies and over time. However, IFRS do not prescribe a particular format for the presentation of the income statement. Some empirical studies show some variety relating to income statement disclosures. Since various models for the income statement presentation exist and since there are (cultural) differences in the application of IFRS, we can reasonably doubt the comparability of IFRS income statements. For a sample of 30 companies from 3 countries we manually analyze income statement comparability. We do so by applying a financial analyst approach by breaking net income down into subtotals and, then, investigate comparability on different income levels. We also consider where particular income statement information is disclosed. We find that on the levels where IFRS requirements exist (level 1 and 2) comparability is (nearly) perfect. But as soon as the required levels are left, comparability deteriorates from level to level. On the individual line item level 6 only 74% of income statements with a functional presentation are comparable. A more detailed IFRS income statement format as currently required and definitions of certain intermediate results (operating profit, for example) would certainly improve comparability.

Keywords: IFRS Income Statement, Comparability, Income Subtotals

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hossfeld, Christopher, Are IFRS Income Statements Comparable? (January 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1741191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1741191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
B Al-Shammari , P Brown , A Tarca
An investigation of compliance with international accounting standards by listed companies in the Gulf Co-operation Council member states
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 43 , p. 425 - 447 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M J Ali
A Synthesis of Empirical Research on International Accounting Harmonization and Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 24 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2005
Amf
Etude portent sur les indicateurs publiés dans les communiqués au titre de la période 2009 et leurs liens avec les comptes Posted: 2010-11-17
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,018
RANK
177,685
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Resource Based Strategy & Policy eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

An Investigation of Compliance With International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council Member States

By Bader Al-shammari, Philip R. Brown, ...

Dimensions of National Culture and the Accounting Environment - the Spanish Case

By Oriol Amat, John Blake, ...

The Impact of Adopting IASs on the Jordanian Environment: The Perspective of Accountants, Auditors and Academicians 'An Exploratory Study'

By Malek Alsharairi and Riyadh Jasim Al-abdullah

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies