Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Content of Internal Control Weaknesses: The Evidence from Japan

International Journal of Accounting 49(1): 1-26, 2014

Posted: 16 Jan 2011 Last revised: 26 Jun 2016

Riku Nishizaki

University of Tokyo - Department of Technology Management for Innovation

Yudai Takano

University of Tokyo

Fumiko Takeda

Keio University

Date Written: August 19, 2011

Abstract

We examine Japanese stock market responses to the disclosure of internal control weaknesses (ICW), especially in relation to other information released around the disclosure date and to firm attributes. Japan is classified as a code-law country, where corporate disclosure tends to be less timely than in a common-law country. Indeed, for the first two years, the disclosure rate of ICW has been much lower in Japan than in the US. Our standard event study analysis shows that the mean cumulative abnormal returns for all firms disclosing ICW are not significantly different from zero. However, after controlling for firms with effective internal control, other information released around the disclosure date and firm attributes, we find that the disclosure of ICW negatively affects stock prices. Our results indicate that the disclosure of ICW is informative to the market, because it is rare and exceptional in Japan.

Keywords: Internal Control, Event Study, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Disclosure, Regulation, Institution

JEL Classification: M41, M48, K22

Suggested Citation:

Nishizaki, Riku and Takano, Yudai and Takeda, Fumiko, Information Content of Internal Control Weaknesses: The Evidence from Japan (August 19, 2011). International Journal of Accounting 49(1): 1-26, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1741268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1741268
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,684
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economic Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

By Ivy Zhang

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Making of Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies