Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pricing Discretionary Accruals: Code vs. Common Law Firms

CAAA Annual Conference 2011

37 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2011

Xiaofeng Peng

University of Toledo - College of Business and Innovation

Date Written: January 16, 2011

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate whether the U.S. stock market differentially and rationally prices discretionary accrual components of earnings of U.S.-traded foreign companies from different legal systems – code and common law. The study covers 1,426 U.S.-traded nonfinancial foreign firm-years (265 firms) from 1981 to 2000 including 686 common law firm-years (126 firms) and 740 code law firm-years (139 firms). Both Mishkin (1983) and hedge portfolio tests are performed to conduct our investigation. Hedge portfolio tests show that the market overprices the discretionary accruals for code law firms than those for common law firms. At the same time, the Mishkin (1983) tests show that U.S. market may, on average, rationally prices discretionary accruals for the full sample size of code and common law firms, but the hedge portfolio tests indicate that market may not rationally price discretionary accruals for every firm, especially for with extreme on discretionary accruals. The major limitation of this study is small size of sample. Future research can conduct a large-sample study by using code law and common law firms listed in their domestic markets rather than in the U.S. markets. Because of finding of this paper, investors can identify mispriced foreign firms publicly traded in the U.S. stock market by focusing more on code law firms than common law firms.

Keywords: Accruals, Discretionary accruals, Mispricing, Code law, Common law

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Peng, Xiaofeng, Pricing Discretionary Accruals: Code vs. Common Law Firms (January 16, 2011). CAAA Annual Conference 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1742099 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1742099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
J Abarbanell
Do Analysts' Forecasts Incorporate Information in Prior Stock Price Changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Tests of Analysts' Overreaction/Underreaction to Earnings Information as an Explanation for Anomalous Stock Price Behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1187 - 1207 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ali , A Klein , J Rosenfeld
Analysts' Use of Information about Permanent and Transitory Earnings Components in Forecasting Annual EPS
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , p. 183 - 198 Posted: 1992
T J Atwood , M Drake , J Myers , L Myers
Do earnings reported under IFRS tell us more about future earnings and cash flows?" Working paper Posted: 2010-02
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,972
RANK
521,427
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies