Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Alternative Global Equity Investment Frameworks

25 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2011

Xi Li

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Finance

Date Written: October 14, 2010

Abstract

In establishing the foundation of their investment process, global equity investors typically adopt a framework along geographic and/or industry dimensions. The chosen framework is then applied to the whole investment process including alpha generation, portfolio construction, and risk management, thus having fundamental implications for investment results. Our paper provides the first comprehensive study of the feasibility and optimality of alternative frameworks. We draw on the intuitions and methodology from the prior debate on whether country-specific or industry-specific sources of return variations dominate in the diversification benefits of global equity investing. We find that region-sector and region-industry frameworks are the optimal frameworks among the feasible ones. Our results are of importance to both stock selection and asset allocation investors in global equities.

Keywords: global equity, investment framework, geographic, region, country, sector, industry, portfolio constructure, alpha generation, risk management, stock selection, asset allocation

JEL Classification: C10, C21, C22, C12, C50, C51, G11, G12, G14, G15, G31

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xi, Assessing Alternative Global Equity Investment Frameworks (October 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1749715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1749715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Ang , R Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
High idiosyncratic volatility and low returns: International and further U.S. evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Sean P Baca , L Brian , Richard A Garbe , Weiss
The rise of sector effects in major equity markets
Financial Analysts Journal September/October , p. 35 - 40 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G Bekaert , R Hodrick , X Zhang
Journal of Finance , volume 91 , p. 2591 - 2626 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Bhojraj , C M C Lee , D Oler
What's my line? A comparison of industry classification schemes for capital market research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 745 - 774 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,885
RANK
163,472
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Another Look at the Role of the Industrial Structure of Markets for International Diversification Strategies

By John M. Griffin and George Andrew Karolyi

International Stock Return Comovements

By Geert Bekaert, Robert J. Hodrick, ...

International Stock Return Comovements

By Geert Bekaert, Robert J. Hodrick, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies