Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Accounting Errors that Arise During the Transition to IFRS

39 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2011

Anna Bedford

University of Technology, Sydney - School of Accounting; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Zoltan P. Matolcsy

University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS School of Accounting

Joseph Weber

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Peter Alfred Wells

University of Technology Sydney, Accounting Discipline Group ; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 31, 2011

Abstract

In this paper we focus on Australia’s adoption of IFRS in 2005, providing evidence on factors affecting errors in financial reporting as Australian companies transitioned from Australian GAAP to IFRS, and the effect of these errors on measures of cost of capital. We find that characteristics of the firm, the CFO, and the firm’s auditor are all associated with IFRS transition errors, and that these errors are associated with larger bid/ask spreads (i.e. greater information asymmetry) and increased audit fees as market participants react to the firm’s difficulties adopting a new GAAP. We suggest that this evidence is helpful to both U.S. firms and regulators as the U.S. moves towards IFRS adoption, and also useful to academics, as it suggests the long term benefits of IFRS are likely understated, as transition errors may temporarily understate these benefits.

Keywords: IFRS, errors, fraud, auditing, cost of capital

JEL Classification: G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bedford, Anna and Matolcsy, Zoltan Paul and Weber, Joseph Peter and Wells, Peter Alfred, An Analysis of the Accounting Errors that Arise During the Transition to IFRS (January 31, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1752485 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1752485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Kirsten L. Anderson , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Effect of 10k Restatements on Firm Value, Information Asymmetries, and Investors' Reliance on Earnings
Pages: 30 Posted: 17 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Chris S. Armstrong , Wayne R. Guay , Joseph Peter Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Pages: 174 Posted: 21 Mar 2010 Last revised: 16 Nov 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P Clarckson , J D Hanna , G Richardson , R Thompson
The impact of IFRS adoption on the value relevance of book value and earnings Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Danqing Xu Young , Zili Zhuang
Relevance of Differences between Net Income Based on IFRS and Domestic Standards for European Firms
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 41, Issue 3-4, pp. 297-327, 2014 · 31 Pages · Posted: 11 Apr 2014 · Downloads: 7
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Danqing Xu Young , Zili Zhuang
Relevance of Differences Between Net Income Based on IFRS and Domestic Standards for European Firms
52 Pages · Posted: 17 May 2011 · Last revised: 17 Aug 2013 · Downloads: 685
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Philip Brown
Some Observations on Research on the Benefits to Nations of Adopting IFRS
The Japanese Accounting Review , volume 3 , issue 2013 , p. 1 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Emmanuel T. De George , Xi Li , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
A Review of the IFRS Adoption Literature
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming · 118 Pages · Posted: 24 Sep 2015 · Last revised: 29 May 2016 · Downloads: 3,518
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,050
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,741
RANK
48,904
6 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies