Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Cross-Country Study on the Effects of National Culture on Earnings Management

Journal of International Business Studies, Vol. 41, No. 1, 2010

37 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2011

Sam Han

Korea University Business School

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Stephen B. Salter

Department of Accounting Middle Tennessee University

Yong Keun Yoo

Korea University Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2010

Abstract

This study hypothesizes and tests whether the degrees to which managers exercise earnings discretion relates to their value system (i.e., culture) as well as the institutional features (i.e., legal environment) of their country. We find that uncertainty avoidance and individualism dimensions of national culture explain managers’ earnings discretion across countries and that this association varies with the strength of investor protection. This study extends prior literature by documenting that both national culture and institutional structure are important factors that explain corporate managers’ earnings discretion practices around the world and that the influences of these factors on earnings discretion are conditional on each other.

Keywords: Cross-Cultural Management, Cultural Frameworks, International Financial Reporting, Earnings Management, National Culture, Investor Protection, Disclosure

JEL Classification: F23, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Han, Sam and Kang, Tony and Salter, Stephen Brian and Yoo, Yong Keun, A Cross-Country Study on the Effects of National Culture on Earnings Management (January 1, 2010). Journal of International Business Studies, Vol. 41, No. 1, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1754789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure , p. 127 - 182 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
N Boyacigiller , N Adler
The parochial dinosaur: organizational science in a global context
Academy of Management Review , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 262 - 90 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
591
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,697
RANK
105,207
31 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies