Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Consequences on Accounting Conservatism in Europe: Do Auditor Incentives Matter?

52 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2011 Last revised: 5 Oct 2015

Charles Piot

Univ. Grenoble Alpes; University of Angers - Centre de Recherches Appliquées à la Gestion (CERAG)

Pascal Dumontier

University of Grenoble; University of Angers - Centre de Recherches Appliquées à la Gestion (CERAG)

Rémi Janin

University of Grenoble and CERAG-CNRS

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2015

Abstract

We investigate the way auditor characteristics (i.e., reputation and industry specialization) interact on the consequences of mandatory IFRS adoption in Europe in terms of accounting conservatism. Indeed, a mandatory adoption setting may control for firm-level reporting incentives when gauging the effects of a change in accounting standards. However, companies still have some flexibility in their choice of auditor, and the later has a significant say on the accounting policy. We use a dataset of European firms adopting IFRS in 2005 in response to the IAS Regulation (2,973 unique firms) and observed between 2001 and 2008. The main findings are that: (1) the decrease in conditional conservatism (as proxied by the asymmetric timeliness of bad vs. good news), also evidenced in other studies (Ahmed et al., 2013; André et al., 2013) is attributable to Big 4-audited companies; (2) correlatively, unconditional conservatism is higher under IFRS in the presence of a Big 4 auditor; and (3) none of these moderating effects occur when considering auditor industry specialization metrics. We conclude that Big 4 auditors placed more emphasis on auditor risk incentives in the IFRS adoption context, by influencing overly conservative accounting practices in response to the new and uncertain accounting environment, with detrimental effects on earnings quality.

Keywords: Mandatory IFRS adoption; Conservatism; Big 4; industry specialization; Europe

JEL Classification: M48, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Piot, Charles and Dumontier, Pascal and Janin, Rémi, IFRS Consequences on Accounting Conservatism in Europe: Do Auditor Incentives Matter? (October 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1754504 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1754504
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
128 References
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-Based versus RulesBased Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D Alexander , B Eirle , C Hutten
The auditor as standard-setter: Some US evidence and its implication
29th congress of the French Accounting Association Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,494
RANK
14,706
6 Citations
128 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies