Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Exchange Rates in International Transfer Pricing Decisions

International Business and Economics Research Journal, Vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 35-48, 2004

27 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2011 Last revised: 17 Jun 2011

Canri Chan

Monterey Institute of International Studies

Steven P. Landry

Naval Postgraduate School

Terrance Jalbert

University of Hawaii - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: February 19, 2004

Abstract

Events leading to the passing of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have led to increased concern with and scrutiny of potential management manipulation of financial statements. From an agency theory perspective, managers have incentives to manipulate organizational methods and choices in order to produce financial statements that those managers believe will maximize their incentive compensation. Transfer pricing represents one possible choice that managers can manipulate. This paper investigates whether exchange rates affect transfer pricing particularly as it relates to maximizing overall corporate profitability. The effects of taxes and government regulations have been explored in considerable depth in the transfer pricing literature. However, while transfer prices should also be affected by exchange rates in predictable ways, this variable has received comparably little attention in the literature. Inclusion of exchange rates in an analysis of transfer pricing and corporate profitability presents an opportunity to add to the literature. We conducted an experiment to examine how managers set transfer prices. We found that, while individuals were influenced by managerial incentives, they seemed genuinely concerned with firm profitability. We found that individuals, and therefore possibly managers, consider the effects of exchange rates on their transfer pricing decisions, even in the absence of incentives. This is an important finding not only with relation to the transfer pricing literature but also with regard to the underlying agency theory literature.

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Canri and Landry, Steven P. and Jalbert, Terrance, Effects of Exchange Rates in International Transfer Pricing Decisions (February 19, 2004). International Business and Economics Research Journal, Vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 35-48, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1754135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R N Anthony , V Govindarajan
Management Control Systems Posted: 1998
C Chan
International Transfer Pricing: A Comparison of Two Models. Unpublished PhD Dissertation Posted: 2002
S _______ , Landry
The Impacts of Tax Rates on Decision Making Regarding International Transfer Price Choice. Working Paper. Monterey Institute of International Studies Posted: 2002
F D S Choi , C A Frost , G K Meek
International Accounting. 4 th Ed Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
733
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,380
RANK
79,787
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and Ownership Structure

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased) and William H. Meckling

Risk, the Pricing of Capital Assets, and the Evaluation of Investment Portfolios

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

The Option Pricing Model and the Risk Factor of Stock

By Dan Galai and Ronald W. Masulis

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies