Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Agency Problem and the Moderating Role of Culturally-Based Management Style on Chinese Managers’ Discretionary Accruals

Posted: 4 Feb 2011 Last revised: 16 Jun 2011

Cathy Beaudoin

University of Vermont

Li Dang

California State Polytechnic University, San Luis Obispo

Qiaoling Fang

Ocean University of China

George T. Tsakumis

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

Date Written: February 4, 2011

Abstract

Upon completion of overseas acquisitions, Western firms typically hire Chinese locals or expatriates to run their Chinese operations. This is an important consideration because a Western executive’s managerial style may impact Chinese employee behavior differently than a Chinese executive’s managerial style. Utilizing an experiment with Chinese managers as participants, we examine the effect of the agency problem (when both an incentive and opportunity to act in line with one’s self-interest are present) on Chinese managers’ discretionary accrual decisions, as well as the role that their executives’ culturally-based management style (Eastern versus Western) plays in mitigating their propensity to manage earnings. We find that Chinese managers tend to override corporate concerns and recommend higher discretionary expense accruals in an effort to maximize their two-year bonus potential when the agency problem is present. Conversely, they tend to recommend lower discretionary expense accrual figures to help achieve corporate goals when the agency problem is not present. Interestingly, we also find that an executive’s culturally-based management style moderates the impact of the agency problem in that Chinese managers’ willingness to manage earnings across agency problem conditions is dampened more in the presence of an Eastern (Chinese) executive than in the presence of a Western (U.S.) executive.

Keywords: earnings management, culturally-based management style, China

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Beaudoin, Cathy and Dang, Li and Fang, Qiaoling and Tsakumis, George T., The Agency Problem and the Moderating Role of Culturally-Based Management Style on Chinese Managers’ Discretionary Accruals (February 4, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1755268
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,280
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies