Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Institutional Environment on the Value Relevance of Fair Values

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 22, No. 1, 2017

49 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2011 Last revised: 17 May 2017

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: May 12, 2014

Abstract

Most prior studies attribute valuation discounts on certain fair valued assets to measurement error or bias. We argue that institutional differences across countries (e.g., information environment or market sophistication) affect investors’ ability to process and impound fair value information in their valuation. We predict that the impact of the institutional environment on the value relevance is particularly pronounced for reported fair values of assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (hereafter, “FVO assets”), for which investor experience is lowest and complexity is highest. Using a global sample of IFRS banks, we find that FVO assets are generally less value relevant than held-for-trading assets (HFT) and available-for-sale assets (AFS). By partitioning countries into market- and bank-based economies to proxy for institutional differences, we find that the valuation discount on FVO assets is more pronounced in bank-based economies. Additional tests suggest that this valuation discount is attenuated by a richer firm-level information environment and the presence of institutional investors with fair value experience. Robustness analyses show that our findings are not solely attributable to differences in fair value measurement, fair value quality, or asset type composition.

Keywords: Fair Value Accounting, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Value Relevance, Institutional Accounting, Information Environment

JEL Classification: G18, G21, M41, N20

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter and Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán, The Impact of the Institutional Environment on the Value Relevance of Fair Values (May 12, 2014). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 22, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1758683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1758683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Basel II: International convergence of capital measurement and capital standards: A revised framework, Comprehensive version Posted: 2006-06
T Beck , R Levine
Industry growth and capital allocation: Does having a market-or bank-based system matter
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 64 , p. 147 - 180 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D A Belsley , E Kuh , R E Welsch
Regression Diagnostics: Identifying Influential Data and Sources of Collinearity Posted: 1980
V Bernard , K Schipper
Recognition and Disclosure in Financial Reporting Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,018
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,628
RANK
51,101
9 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies