Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregate Quasi Rents and Auditor Independence: Evidence from Audit Firm Mergers in China

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2011

K. Hung Chan

Lingnan University - Department of Accountancy

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: February 1, 2011

Abstract

Using a sample of audit firm mergers in China’s audit market, this paper provides evidence on the way auditor independence can be improved following audit firm mergers as a result of a change in the aggregate quasi rents that are exposed to risk (i.e., the quasi rents at stake). This setting allows us to examine the relationship between auditor independence and the aggregate quasi rents at stake directly after controlling for the confounding effects of auditor competence, audit firm brand name, and the self-selection problem that may exist in previous studies. We hypothesize that auditors become more independent in the post-merger period only if the mergers increase the aggregate quasi rents at stake. Proxying audit quality by the frequency of modified audit opinions (MAOs) and using a “difference-in-differences” research design, we conduct separate tests for two types of mergers under the institutional arrangements in China: one with an increase in the aggregate quasi rents at stake and the other with little change in these rents. Consistent with our hypothesis, we observe an improvement in auditor independence, but only for mergers that increase auditors’ aggregate quasi rents at stake. Moreover, the post-merger increase in the propensity for MAOs in this type of merger is positively associated with the magnitude of the change in the aggregate quasi rents at stake. Our empirical findings support the theory that auditor independence is a positive function of the aggregate quasi rents at stake.

Keywords: Audit quality, Auditor independence, Quasi rents, Audit firm mergers

JEL Classification: G34, L10, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chan, K. Hung and Wu, Donghui, Aggregate Quasi Rents and Auditor Independence: Evidence from Audit Firm Mergers in China (February 1, 2011). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1761923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
A Ali , L S Hwang , M Trombley
Arbitrage risk and the book-to-market anomaly
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 285 - 323 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality at initial public offerings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,619
RANK
151,925
14 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Impact of Improved Auditor Independence on Audit Market Concentration in China

By Mark L. Defond, T.j. Wong, ...

Financial Packaging of IPO Firms in China

By Joseph Aharony, Jevons Lee, ...

Earnings Management and Capital Resource Allocation: Evidence from China's Accounting-Based Regulation of Rights Issue

By Kevin C. W. Chen and Hongqi Yuan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies