Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Never the Twain Shall Meet? Addressing the Disconnection Between Banks’ Financial and Regulatory Reporting

40 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2011

Paul J. M. Klumpes

Aalborg University Business School

Peter Welch

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 18, 2011

Abstract

This paper reviews the arguments for and against the decoupling of IFRS versus Basle II based capital ratio calculations based on IFRS from those based on Basel II. We analyse recent trends in both accounting and regulatory supervision related to banks post after the financial crisis and identify areas where there remain are still deficiencies in the transparency of accounting versus regulatory-based capital disclosures and calculations. We find that the variation in disclosure practices across IFRS and versus BIS-based capital estimations is significant for a sample of major European banks. We also identify how, for a large Swiss bank, variations in IFRS asset and capital bases for capital ratio calculations for a large Swiss Bank can enhance the transparency of disclosures make disclosures more transparent. We find evidence that the extent of variation in disclosure of the regulatory capital to shareholders capital is related to the size of the bank, the extent of off-balance-sheet activities and subordinated debt, the net interest margin, return on assets, value added, and productivity per employee. Variation in disclosure of the leverage ratio is related to bank size, subordinated debt exposure, return on assets, and cost efficiency. We recommend that banks enhance the scope and nature of the reconciliation of IFRS to BIS-based capital ratios to improve the efficiency of markets in reducing information asymmetry about these variations.

Keywords: BIS Capital, IFRS, Capital Ratios, Leverage Ratios, Reconciliation

JEL Classification: G21, M40

Suggested Citation:

Klumpes, Paul J.M. and Welch, Peter, Never the Twain Shall Meet? Addressing the Disconnection Between Banks’ Financial and Regulatory Reporting (January 18, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1763817 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1763817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Fair value of owncredit risk by banks
Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
• Ball , R , A Robin , G Sadka
Is financial reporting shaped by equity markets or by debt markets? An international study of timeliness and conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman
How did financial reporting contribute to the financial crisis?
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 425 - 453 Posted: 2010
Crossref
• Basel
Basel II (International convergence of capital measurement and capital standards: A revised framework, comprehensive version) Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,636
RANK
454,090
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies