Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hassles Free Global VAT Refunds to be Globally Competitive

Srusti Management Review, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 7-26, July-December 2008

21 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2011 Last revised: 31 Jul 2012

Pawan K. Chugan

Nirma University - Institute of Management; AIIM - Ahmedabad; SPM - PDPU

Date Written: February 24, 2011

Abstract

In the global business, competitiveness has become a buzzword and to achieve it every enterprise has been looking for the cost reduction methods in production and marketing of goods internationally. One of such element of on this account is getting the international VAT refunds from the foreign tax authorities which knowingly or unknowingly is not being claimed by many firms because of complicated rules, regulations and time consuming and cumbersome refund systems. The expenses on VAT, therefore, are normally included in the cost of production and marketing, which otherwise can be saved by reclaiming VAT from the foreign tax authorities to increase profitability of the units engaged in international business.

The paper gives the international VAT coverage and background of VAT in EU, explains the VAT’s concept, describes its common features the world over, gives illustrative VAT refund rates and policies, states advantages of outsourcing of such VAT refunds and prescribes these refunds as source of cost reduction to be competitive in the international business. Attempts have been made in this paper to create awareness of VAT refund system amongst the managers/executives employed or inspiring to joint the firms engaged in international business, so that they can claim the legal dues of their firms from the foreign tax authorities without going through complicated procedures and spending their precious time and money by availing the services of VAT Recovery Agencies i.e. to get the VAT refunds hassles free. And for that, paper also provides brief details of select VAT recovery agencies that may be approached for further information and their services.

Keywords: Value Added Tax (VAT), Global VAT Refunds, VAT Recovery Agencies, VAT Coverage and Background of VAT in EU, Outsourcing of VAT Refunds

JEL Classification: E6, F23, F42, H2, H32, H87, K34

Suggested Citation:

Chugan, Pawan Kumar, Hassles Free Global VAT Refunds to be Globally Competitive (February 24, 2011). Srusti Management Review, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 7-26, July-December 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1768664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Ebrill
Posted: 2001
Crossref
Daniel J Mitchell
Beware of Value Added Tax
Backgrounder , issue 1852 Posted: 2005-05-16
Sciott Riswold
Posted: 2004
Crossref
Oecd
Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,709
RANK
397,014
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Coordinating Tariff Reduction and Domestic Tax Reform

By Michael Keen and Jenny E. Ligthart

On Selective Indirect Tax Reform in Developing Countries

By M. Shahe Emran and Joseph E. Stiglitz

Tax Revenue and (or?) Trade Liberalization

By Thomas Baunsgaard and Michael Keen

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies