Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Story About IAS/IFRS Implementation in Romania: An Institutional and Structuration Theory Perspective

Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 76-100, 2011

25 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2011 Last revised: 30 Dec 2012

Nadia Albu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Catalin Nicolae Albu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Stefan Bunea

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Daniela Artemisa St. Calu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Maria Mădălina Gĭrbină

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Date Written: January 16, 2012

Abstract

Purpose – This study aims to investigate in-depth, and explain the issues related to, the implementation of IAS/IFRS in an emergent country that recently adhered to the European Union, i.e. Romania.

Design/Methodology/Approach – An institutional and structuration theory perspective is used to discuss two stages of IAS/IFRS implementation in Romania. Both primary (11 in-depth semi-structured interviews conducted with key actors involved in financial reporting) and secondary data (accounting regulations after the fall of communism, with respect to the implementation of IAS/IFRS) were collected for the purpose of the paper.

Findings – It was found that the two stages of IAS/IFRS implementation had different outcomes, with a more profound and qualitative impact of the second phase. The first step was a result of coercive external forces, that is, the influence of the World Bank. Given the lack of other factors to favor the change process, it is argued that the actual implementation of IAS in that period was very limited. Even though the second step meant a reduction in scope to only listed companies in consolidated accounts and financial institutions, it is argued that it was accompanied by a change process more significant than in the previous period.

Originality/Value – The paper investigates the inter-play between institutions, routines and politics in the Romanian context and highlights the complexity of accounting change in an emerging country.

Keywords: International Accounting, Financial Reporting, Emerging Markets, Romania

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Albu, Nadia and Albu, Catalin Nicolae and Bunea, Stefan and Calu, Daniela Artemisa St. and Gĭrbină, Maria Mădălina, A Story About IAS/IFRS Implementation in Romania: An Institutional and Structuration Theory Perspective (January 16, 2012). Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 76-100, 2011 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1770028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Finant¸elorfinant¸elor Ordinul Ministrului
403/1999 privind aprobarea reglementa ˘rilor contabile armonizate cu Directiva a IV-a a Comunita ˘t¸ilor˘t¸ilor Economice Europene (CEE) si cu Standardele de Contabilitate Internat¸ionaleInternat¸ionale, Monitorul Oficial al României, nr. 480/4.10.1999 [Order of the Minister of Finances no. 403/1999 for the approval of the accounting regulations harmonized with the Fourth European Directive and International Accounting Standards
Official Journal of Romania
Informal discussions with academics and accounting professionals involved in financial reporting at that stage revealed that this alleged application of IAS meant sometimes the application of mainly tax-driven accounting, and the "conversion" of these financial statements at year end, by auditors, into IAS-compatible financial statements, by applying
time, the number of the large accounting firms has continuously decreased due to restructuration and evolutions
Crossref
The study was conducted on 100 professionals; 72 percent consider that the changes are insignificant, and 23 percent do not see any difference
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
430
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,411
RANK
155,190
4 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies