Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Impact of IFRS X on the Ability of Basel III to Reduce Systemic Risk

Posted: 4 Mar 2011

Mark Hughes

University of Canberra

Date Written: March 1, 2011

Abstract

A number of recent influential reports have identified off balance sheet financing as an important factor in the build up of systemic risk in the banking and finance sector during the period leading up to the Global Financial Crisis. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision reacted to these reports and other pressure by unveiling Basel III as part of an extensive reform package, an important component of which is a number of measures designed to reduce the impact of off balance sheet financing on systemic risk. This paper identifies some concerns relating to the design of these measures and illustrates how reliance by the Committee on figures found in general purpose financial reports is questionable, as the International Accounting Standards Board has recently proposed modifying rules for consolidation accounting in ways which promote off balance sheet financing. This paper demonstrates how the Board’s proposals interact with Basel III in ways that are unlikely to reduce systemic risk.

Keywords: Off balance sheet financing, accounting standards, Basel III, systemic risk, supermajorities, potential voting rights

JEL Classification: M41, G28

Suggested Citation:

Hughes, Mark, An Analysis of the Impact of IFRS X on the Ability of Basel III to Reduce Systemic Risk (March 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1773427
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,447
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies