Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Environmental Factors on Accounting Diversity – A Literature Review

27 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2011

Joël Branson

Vrije Universiteit Brussel VUB

Muiz Abu Alia

An-Najah National University

Date Written: March 7, 2011

Abstract

Accounting diversity refers to the differences that exist between the characteristics of the financial reporting frameworks used in different countries. This diversity appears as a result of differences in the factors that affect the development of financial reporting frameworks. The accounting literature presents several factors that cause this diversity. These factors are mainly related to environmental factors.

In this article, we review the accounting literature to learn about the reasons for accounting diversity, and to better understand how accounting diversity affects accounting harmonization. We explore the environmental factors that are considered most influential in causing accounting diversity in general and in developing countries in particular; with a special focus on the Arab and Islamic countries.

This literature review is useful for two reasons. First, in general, we strengthen awareness of the existence of and the causes for accounting diversity. It is important to understand the current limitations of the drive towards international accounting harmonization. Second, more specifically, we prepare the road for a more in-depth analysis of the environmental factors that are considered most influential in causing accounting diversity. This analysis can assist policy-setters in their efforts to realize further international accounting harmonization.

Keywords: IFRS, Accounting Diversity

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Branson, Joël and Abu Alia, Muiz, The Effect of Environmental Factors on Accounting Diversity – A Literature Review (March 7, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1780479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1780479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
and Public Policy , volume 26 , p. 1 - 38
Crossref
S M El-Gazzar , P M Finn , Jacob , R
An empirical investigation of multinational firms' compliance with International Accounting Standards
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 239 - 248 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M A Elsayed , Z Hoque
Perceived international environmental factors and corporate voluntary disclosure practices: An empirical study
The British Accounting Review , volume 42 , p. 17 - 35 Posted: 2010
Crossref
I Floropoulos
IFRS-First time users: some empirical evidence from Greek companies
SPOUDAI , volume 56 , issue 3 , p. 39 - 70 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,603
RANK
13,783
4 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

An Investigation of Compliance With International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council Member States

By Bader Al-shammari, Philip R. Brown, ...

Dimensions of National Culture and the Accounting Environment - the Spanish Case

By Oriol Amat, John Blake, ...

The Impact of Adopting IASs on the Jordanian Environment: The Perspective of Accountants, Auditors and Academicians 'An Exploratory Study'

By Malek Alsharairi and Riyadh Jasim Al-abdullah

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies