Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Eliminating the Form 20-F Reconciliation from IFRS to U.S. GAAP Have Capital Market Consequences?

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2011 Last revised: 15 May 2011

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Haidan Li

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Siqi Li

Santa Clara University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates the capital market consequences of the SEC’s decision to eliminate the reconciliation requirement for cross-listed companies following International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). We find no evidence that the elimination has a negative impact on firms’ market liquidity or probability of informed trading (PIN). We also find no evidence of a significant impact on cost of equity, analyst forecasts, institutional ownership, stock price efficiency and synchronicity. Moreover, IFRS users do not increase disclosure frequency nor supply the reconciliation voluntarily. Our results do not support the argument that eliminating the reconciliation results in information loss or greater information asymmetry.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), U.S. GAAP, Form 20-F Reconciliation, Cross-listing

JEL Classification: M41, G15, G18

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Yongtae and Li, Haidan and Li, Siqi, Does Eliminating the Form 20-F Reconciliation from IFRS to U.S. GAAP Have Capital Market Consequences? (March 1, 2011). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1781345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1781345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
A perspective on the SEC's proposal to accept financial statements prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards (IFRS) without reconciliation to U.S. GAAP. The Financial Accounting Standards Committee of the Posted: 2007
Crossref
Response to the SEC release, acceptance from foreign private issuers of financial statements prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards without reconciliation to U.S. GAAP. The Financial Reporting Policy Committee of the Posted: 2007
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns, cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An exploratory study of the valuation properties of cross-listed firms' IAS and U.S. GAAP earnings and book values
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
13 Citations
Mark DeFond , David Hendrik Erkens , Jieying Zhang
Does PSM Really Eliminate the Big N Audit Quality Effect?
Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 02.14 · 48 Pages · Posted: 27 Jul 2014 · Last revised: 10 Mar 2016 · Downloads: 1,772
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John (Xuefeng) Jiang , Kathy Ruby Petroni , Isabel Wang
Did Eliminating the 20-F Reconciliation Between IFRS and US GAAP Matter?
34 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2010 · Downloads: 635
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kazbi Soonawalla , Suhas A. Sridharan
Cost-of-Capital Effects of IFRS Reporting in the United States
42 Pages · Posted: 6 Feb 2012 · Downloads: 545
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fei Han , Haihong He
Cost of equity capital of foreign firms
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 268 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
498
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,471
RANK
130,343
13 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies