Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Polish Public Companies 'Cooking the Books'? The Evidence from Annual Earnings Thresholds

International Business & Economics Research Journal, Vol. 10, No. 3, 2011

8 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2011

Jacek Welc

Wroclaw University of Economics

Date Written: March 21, 2011

Abstract

Earnings management erodes the usefulness of financial statements, because the typical result of cooking the books is the occurrence of earnings bubble that bursts sooner or later, causing stock price to dive. This paper explores the presence of earnings management in the case of companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange in 200-2009 period. We used the methodology based on two earnings thresholds: the negative/positive annual earnings threshold and the threshold between the decrease/increase of annual earnings. The research found that there is unusually low number of observations with the net margin between -1,5% and 0% and unusually high number of observations with the net margin between 0% and 2%, which suggests that companies with unmanaged earnings just below zero boost those earnings to the levels just above zero. The research also confirmed (although less strongly than in the case of negative/positive net margin threshold) the earnings management around zero earnings growth, which suggests that companies with unmanaged earnings that would show the small decline y/y boost those earnings in order to report the positive growth at the level just above zero.

Keywords: earnings management, earnings manipulations, quality of earnings, earnings thresholds

JEL Classification: M41, M42, G3

Suggested Citation:

Welc, Jacek, Are Polish Public Companies 'Cooking the Books'? The Evidence from Annual Earnings Thresholds (March 21, 2011). International Business & Economics Research Journal, Vol. 10, No. 3, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1791791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
L Babalyan
Earnings Management by Firms Applying International Financial Reporting Standards: Implications for Valuation Posted: 2004
Jan Barton , Paul J. Simko
The Balance Sheet as an Earnings Management Constraint
Pages: 39 Posted: 21 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L D Brown , M L Caylor
A Temporal Analysis of Quarterly Earnings Thresholds: Propensities and Valuation Consequences , volume 80 , p. 423 - 440 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings Management to Avoid Earnings Decreases and Losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
618,773
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies