Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Choice of Bond Market by Foreign Firms

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2011

Yu Gao

University of St Thomas, Opus College of Business

Date Written: March 22, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines the economic impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) by studying foreign firms’ choice of whether to issue bonds in the U.S. public bond market or elsewhere before and after the law’s enactment in 2002. After controlling for firm characteristics, bond features, home-country attributes, and market conditions, I find that foreign firms rely less on the U.S. public bond market after SOX. Additionally, some determinants of choosing the U.S. public bond market have changed since the passage of SOX: firms listing equities on U.S. stock exchanges, adopting IFRS, and doing large bond issuances are more likely to choose this market in the post-SOX period than in the pre-SOX period. Overall, these results are consistent with a shift in the expected costs and benefits of choosing the U.S. public bond market following SOX. This paper provides the first evidence about how SOX influences debt financing decisions and alters capital flows across international bond markets.

Keywords: The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), The Yankee Bond Market, The Eurodollar Bond Market, The Rule 144A Bond Market

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Yu, The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Choice of Bond Market by Foreign Firms (March 22, 2011). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1792963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
P D Allison
Convergence Failures in Logistic Regression
SAS Global Forum: Statistics and Data Analysis , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2008
S Ascarelli
Citing Sarbanes, foreign companies flee U.S. exchanges
Wall Street Journal Posted: 2004-09-20
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standard choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP Differences: The Impact on Foreign Analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,791
RANK
311,586
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economic Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

By Ivy Zhang

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Making of Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies