Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Management Call for Need-Based Structured Environment Accounting Standards

Journal Financial Management and Analysis, Vol. 23, No. 2, July-December 2010

Posted: 7 Apr 2011

M. R. K. Swamy

Om Sai Ram Centre for Financial Management Research

Date Written: March 23, 2011

Abstract

Humankind has inherited a US$ 3.8 billion – year store of natural capital. At present rates of use and degradation, there will be little left by the end of the next century. This is not only of aesthetics and morality, it is of the utmost practical concern to society and all people. Though valuing natural capital is a difficult and imprecise exercise; none the less, several recent assessments have estimated that biological services flowing directly into society from the stock of natural capital are worth at least US$ 36 trillion annually which is close to the annual gross world product of approximately US$ 39 trillion, according to Hawkin – A. Lovins – H. Lovins’ research studies. If natural capital stocks were given a monetary value, assuming the assets yielded interest of US$ 36 trillion annually, the world’s normal capital would be valued at somewhere between US$ 400 trillion and US$ 500 trillion.

In the absence of comprehensive accounting standards in the area of environmental protection measures, the International Standards Accounting Review: found that both the quality and quantity of disclosure was quite limited. Generally, when information appeared, it was found in the board of directors report rather than in the financial statements or the notes attached. This study is an attempt to fill in this vacuum to some extent.

Keywords: Natural capital, Comprehensive accounting standards, Environmental protection, Disclosure

JEL Classification: C81, M41, Q01

Suggested Citation:

Swamy, M. R. K., Financial Management Call for Need-Based Structured Environment Accounting Standards (March 23, 2011). Journal Financial Management and Analysis, Vol. 23, No. 2, July-December 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1803088
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,199
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Built Environment eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies