Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Ever Distant Union: The Cross-Border Loss Relief Conundrum in EU Law

Intertax, Vol. 38, No. 10, p. 476, 2010

28 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2011

Violeta Ruiz Almendral

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Date Written: October 19, 2010

Abstract

Cross-border loss relief may well be the last milestone, barring total tax consolidation, in the EU market integration from a tax law perspective. As the Commission’s Communication on the Tax Treatment of Losses in Cross-Border Situations demonstrates, there is yet a lot of ground to be covered in harmonizing this aspect of corporation income taxes. While the CCCTB proposal seems to be stalled, a series of relatively recent ECJ cases (among other, X Holding BV) may be tilting the balance in the interest of Member States, for the first time allowing the safeguard of revenues, or the “balanced allocation of taxing powers” to be the deciding argument in allowing restrictions on the offsetting of losses. Losses cannot be analyzed in isolation of the rules to determine the taxable base, as they are one more piece in the tax base puzzle. In the paper I focus on two issues: multinational groups and permanent establishments, as they comprise the main problems arising in Cross-border Loss Relief. The different methods employed to grant loss relief are assessed, as well as the new OECD proposals on the taxation of permanent establishments. My main argument is that restrictions of loss relief have an effect that go beyond discriminating or restricting, i.e., beyond making it “less attractive” to move around the EU. Such restrictions touch the core of taxation of income. If no loss relief is provided, the tax is not reflecting the real ability to pay, thus not only is it not being neutral and it is being inefficient, it is also creating a fictional tax debt.

Keywords: Loss relief, Tax harmonization in the European Union, Corporation Income Tax, Non-resident taxation, Corporation Income Tax

JEL Classification: H2, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Ruiz Almendral, Violeta, An Ever Distant Union: The Cross-Border Loss Relief Conundrum in EU Law (October 19, 2010). Intertax, Vol. 38, No. 10, p. 476, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1815285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
Calderón Carrero, 'Una introducción al Derecho Comunitario como fuente del Derecho Financiero y Tributario: ¿Hacia un ordenamiento financiero ''bifronte'' o ''dual
Revista Española de Derecho Financiero , volume 132 Posted: 2006
J M Calderón , &amp; A Martín
), which may have been influenced by the Gerritse, Conijn, and Scorpio cases; see A. Martín Jiménez & J.M. Calderón Carrero, 'La inaplazable necesidad de reformar la tributación del no residente sin establecimiento permanente: la STJCE Scorpio
Jurisprudencia Tributaria Aranzadi , volume 21 Posted: 2006-12-08
. M Vid , Lang
Double Taxation and EC Law', in Comparative Fiscal Federalism. Comparing the European Court of Justice and the US Supreme Court's Tax Jurisprudence Posted: 2007
Lang
, volume 62
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Violeta Ruiz Almendral
Poder tributario autonómico y Derecho de la Unión Europea: consecuencias de un federalismo fiscal inacabado (Taxing Powers of Autonomous Communities and EU Law: Consequences of An Unfinished Fiscal Federalism System)
Revista Española de Derecho Europeo, 2017, · 69 Pages · Posted: 1 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,985
RANK
461,979
1 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Macroeconomics & Monetary Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies