Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Effects of Adopting International Accounting Standards: The Case of Greece

40 Pages Posted: 4 May 2011

Stergios Athianos

International Hellenic University

Athanasios Vazakidis

University of Macedonia

Nikolaos Dritsakis

University of Macedonia

Date Written: December 16, 2005

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of adopting International Accounting Standards (IAS) on financial statements and their value relevance for a sample of Greek firms during 2003-2004. By implementing an innovative research design, we make a comparison between accounting results reported under Greek accounting rules (Greek GAAP) with those under IAS for the same set of years and document how IAS adoption changes key financial measures and the value relevance of financial statement information. Greek accounting system is stakeholder-oriented and usually viewed as a historical cost accounting model that gives emphasis in income smoothing while IAS is shareholder-oriented and generally viewed as fair value accounting model that gives emphasis in balance sheet valuation. According to these realizations, we find that total assets and book value of equity as well as variability of book value and net income are significantly higher under IAS than Greek GAAP. In addition, we find that book value (net income) plays a greater (lesser) valuation role under IAS than under Greek GAAP. Finally, we find that while the IAS adjustments to book value are generally value relevant, the adjustments to net income are generally value irrelevant.

Keywords: IAS, IFRS, GAAP, IAS Adoption

Suggested Citation:

Athianos, Stergios and Vazakidis, Athanasios and Dritsakis, Nikolaos, Financial Statement Effects of Adopting International Accounting Standards: The Case of Greece (December 16, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1829348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1829348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
S Aisbitt , C Nobes
The true and fair view requirement in recent national implementations
Accounting and Business Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 83 - 90 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Alexander , C Nobes
Financial Accounting, An International Introduction Posted: 2001
D Alexander , A Britton , Jorissen A
International Financial Reporting and Analysis Posted: 2003
D Alexander , C Nobes
Financial Accounting-An International Introduction Posted: 2004
Load more
10 Citations
Muhammad Nurul Houqe , Reza M. Monem , Peter Clarkson
Understanding IFRS Adoption: A Review of Current Debate and Consequences
FIRN Research Paper · 32 Pages · Posted: 16 May 2013 · Downloads: 846
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michail Pazarskis , Andreas Koutoupis , George Drogalas , Konstantinos Tsakiris
The adoption of IFRS in publicly listed enterprises of high and medium capitalization and the impact of the size of the audit firm in Greece
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 707 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Erick Rading Outa
The Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption on the Accounting Quality of Listed Companies in Kenya
43 Pages · Posted: 23 Dec 2011 · Last revised: 14 Dec 2014 · Downloads: 2,622
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Professor Muhammad Tanko
The Effect of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption On the Performance of Firms in Nigeria
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Conference, May 1-2, 2012 · 33 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2016 · Downloads: 1,357
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,079
RANK
31,378
10 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies