Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Investors’ Reaction to the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in Greece, Using a Market-Based Model

American Journal of Economics and Business Administration, Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 103-112, 2010

10 Pages Posted: 3 May 2011

Athanasios Vazakidis

University of Macedonia

Stergios Athianos

International Hellenic University

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

Problem statement: The aim of this study is to highlight the main differences between International Accounting Standards and Greek accounting, The sample constituted by 90 randomly selected Greek companies which are listed in Athens Stock Exchange were scrutinized concerning the differences in financial figures which have been appeared due to the adoption of IFRS. Approach: The use of capital asset pricing model has been inserted in a single regression model in order to depict the association of risk and the actual price return. The first model has been changed in order to exclude variables that were not statistically significant for the analysis. Finally, a revised model has been constructed and its statistically predictive power has been reexamined. Results: The outcome of the study postulates that when investors take into consideration the risk profile of each company, the differences in the valuation, current assets, current liabilities and sales can predict the share prices within a period of six months. Finally, there is evidence that the differences in valuation of the above companies, along with the classic CAPM can explain the fluctuations in share prices concerning the examined period. Conclusion: Since the field of Investigation is Greece, the research provided key differences between the old Greek conservative accounting and the fair value accounting of IFRS using a mixture of studies, the current paper has proved that the switch of the accounting regime from Greek accounting to IFRS has affected the valuation of companies. The above difference in the valuation has been taken into consideration by investors to readjust their portfolios.

Keywords: Adoption of IFRS, CAPM, investors’ reaction, z-score, Greek accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Vazakidis, Athanasios and Athianos, Stergios, Measuring Investors’ Reaction to the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in Greece, Using a Market-Based Model (2010). American Journal of Economics and Business Administration, Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 103-112, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1829367
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
J. Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
S Armstrong , E Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of I.F.R.S in Europe
Working Paper Series Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Bellas , T Kanellosand , K Papadatos
The consequences of applying international accounting Standards to the financial statements of Greek companies. Working paper Posted: 2007
C Botosan
Disclosure and the cost of capital: What do we know
Account. Bus. Res , volume 36 , p. 31 - 40 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
559
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,010
RANK
113,060
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies