Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relevance of Differences Between Net Income Based on IFRS and Domestic Standards for European Firms

52 Pages Posted: 17 May 2011 Last revised: 10 Jun 2012

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Danqing Young

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Zili Zhuang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: June 6, 2012

Abstract

We find that the adjustments to net income resulting from mandatory 2005 adoption of IFRS in Europe are relevant to investors in financial as well as non-financial firms. However, we find differences in value relevance of the aggregate net income adjustment and adjustments relating to several individual IFRS standards for these two types of firms and across major country groups, which suggests that differences in institutional features or domestic standards can affect investors’ assessment of the relevance of IFRS accounting amounts. Despite these differences, we find that investors in all firms, except French/German non-financial firms, view net income measured in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement as more value relevant than net income measured in accordance with domestic standards, which is notable because IAS 39 was highly controversial in Europe.

Keywords: IFRS, Value Relevance, Income Reconciliation, Europe

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G15, G15, G38

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E. and Landsman, Wayne R. and Young, Danqing Xu and Zhuang, Zili, Relevance of Differences Between Net Income Based on IFRS and Domestic Standards for European Firms (June 6, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1837003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1837003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D Aboody
Market valuation of employee stock options
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 357 - 391 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
SFAS No. 123 Stock-based employee compensation and equity market values
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
685
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,717
RANK
87,023
5 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies