Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Protection and Price Informativeness About Future Earnings: International Evidence

Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 17, No. 2, 2012, pp. 389-419

Posted: 13 May 2011 Last revised: 2 Dec 2014

In-Mu Haw

Texas Christian University - M.J. Neeley School of Business

Bingbing Hu

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Woody Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 1, 2011

Abstract

This study draws on the investor protection literature to identify structural factors in a country’s information environment that are likely to explain cross-country differences in the extent to which future earnings information is capitalized in current stock returns. Using a sample of 55,900 firm-years from 32 economies, we find that greater financial disclosure, higher quality earnings, and greater information dissemination through news media are associated with stock prices that are more informative about future earnings, whereas strong enforcement of insider trading laws is associated with stock prices that are less informative about future earnings. We also find that, on average, price informativeness about future earnings is greater in countries with strong investor protection. Our results shed light on the importance of structural factors constituting a country’s information environment in explaining cross-country variation in price informativeness about future earnings.

Keywords: price informativeness, future earnings response coefficient (FERC), investor protection institutions, structural factors, cross-country study

JEL Classification: F30, G15, G18, K33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Haw, In-Mu and Hu, Bingbing and Lee, Jay Junghun and Wu, Woody Y., Investor Protection and Price Informativeness About Future Earnings: International Evidence (May 1, 2011). Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 17, No. 2, 2012, pp. 389-419, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1838962
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,292
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies