Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shifts in Portfolio Preferences of International Investors: An Application to Sovereign Wealth Funds

Banco de Espana Working Paper, No. 1112, 2011

49 Pages Posted: 26 May 2011

Filipa Sá

King's College London; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

Francesca Viani

Banco de España

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 18, 2011

Abstract

Reversals in capital inflows can have severe economic consequences. This paper develops a dynamic general equilibrium model to analyze the effect on interest rates, asset prices, investment, consumption, output, the exchange rate and the current account of a shift in portfolio preferences of foreign investors. The model has two countries and two asset classes (equities and bonds). It is characterized by imperfect substitutability between assets and allows for endogenous adjustment in interest rates and asset prices. Therefore, it accounts for capital gains arising from equity price movements, in addition to valuation effects caused by changes in the exchange rate. To illustrate the mechanics of the model, we calibrate it to analyse the consequences of an increase in the importance of sovereign wealth funds (SWFs). Specifically, we ask what would happen if ‘excess’ reserves held by emerging markets were transferred from central banks to SWFs. We look separately at two diversification paths: one in which SWFs keep the same allocation across bonds and equities as central banks, but move away from dollar assets (path 1); and another in which they choose the same currency composition as central banks, but shift from US bonds to US equities (path 2). In path 1, the dollar depreciates and US net debt falls on impact and increases in the long run. In path 2, the dollar depreciates and US net debt increases in the long run. In both cases, there is a reduction in the ‘exorbitant privilege’, i.e., the excess return the United States receives on its assets over what it pays on its liabilities. The model is applicable to other episodes in which foreign investors change the composition of their portfolios.

Keywords: portfolio preferences, sudden stops, imperfect substitutability, global imbalances, sovereign wealth funds

JEL Classification: F32

Suggested Citation:

Sa, Filipa G. and Viani, Francesca, Shifts in Portfolio Preferences of International Investors: An Application to Sovereign Wealth Funds (May 18, 2011). Banco de Espana Working Paper, No. 1112, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1845386 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1845386
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Japan Bank Of
Flow of Funds (4th Quarter of 2007): Japan and US overview Posted: 2008-03
The international investment position of the United States at yearend
BEA Posted: 2007-07
O Blanchard , Giavazzi , F Sá
International investors, the US current account, and the dollar
Brooking Papers on Economic Activity , volume 1 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Caballero , Farhi , P-O Gourinchas
An equilibrium model of 'global imbalances' and low interest rates
American Economic Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 358 - 93 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,826
RANK
315,702
3 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Banco de Espana Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The External Wealth of Nations Measures of Foreign Assets and Liabilities for Industrial and Developing Countries

By Philip R. Lane and Gian Maria Milesi-ferretti

The External Wealth of Nations Mark Ii: Revised and Extended Estimates of Foreign Assets and Liabilities, 1970-2004

By Philip R. Lane and Gian Maria Milesi-ferretti

The External Wealth of Nations Mark Ii: Revised and Extended Estimates of Foreign Assets and Liabilities, 1970-2004

By Philip R. Lane and Gian Maria Milesi-ferretti

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies