Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Adopting International Accounting Standards 1 (IAS 1) in Ghana: The Extent of Disclosures, and Their Relationship to Corporate Characteristics

26 Pages Posted: 27 May 2011

Ben Kwame Agyei-Mensah

Solbridge International School of Business

Date Written: May 20, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates the extent of disclosure by firms complying with IAS 1. The key relationships examined are between extent of disclosure and company size, profitability, liquidity, leverage and auditor size. The results of the disclosure level, mean of 60.9%, indicate that most of the firms listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange did not overwhelmingly comply with the IAS 1 disclosure requirements. The results of the multiple regression analysis shows that only liquidity is associated on a statistically significant level as far as the extent of disclosure is concerned. The results did not provide support for a positive relationship between company size, profitability, leverage and auditor size.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards, mandatory disclosure, Ghana

Suggested Citation:

Agyei-Mensah, Ben Kwame, The Impact of Adopting International Accounting Standards 1 (IAS 1) in Ghana: The Extent of Disclosures, and Their Relationship to Corporate Characteristics (May 20, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1847467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1847467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Association Between Corporate Characteristics and Disclosure Levels in Annual Reports: A Meta-Analysis , volume 132 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J M Alattar , K Khater
An empirical investigation of users' views on corporate annual reports in Qatar
International Journal of Commerce and Management , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 312 - 325 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K Alsaeed
The association between firm-specific characteristics and disclosure
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , p. 476 - 496 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Al-Shammari
Voluntary disclosure in Kuwait corporate annual reports
Review of Business Research , volume 1 , p. 10 - 30 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
668
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,782
RANK
89,895
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies