Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Practices and the Persistence of Accounting System Classification

Abacus, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 31 May 2011

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: March 29, 2011

Abstract

The earliest paper on international classification of accounting systems is one hundred years old. For about 15 years from the late 1960s, many papers on the subject were published. One feature of several of the classifications was the dichotomous split of countries into ‘Anglo’ and continental European. This has been extensively debated. This paper prepares a classification based on the accounting policy choices made by the largest listed companies of eight countries in 2008/9. All the companies were using the same reporting rules, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This classification by IFRS practices shows the same two groups as a classification of national practices drawn up in 1980, despite thirty years of harmonisation. None of the classifications above or the more recent ones was based on the actual accounting practices of companies in annual reports. This has several disadvantages, as the paper investigates. This paper’s classification is the first to be based on accounting practices, as well as being the first in the IFRS era. The paper also investigates the implications of the persistent differences in practices for assessing the success of the IASB’s whole project on improving comparability of financial statements.

Keywords: accounting, classification, IFRS, policies

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nobes, Christopher William, IFRS Practices and the Persistence of Accounting System Classification (March 29, 2011). Abacus, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1856103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Accounting Review , volume 52 , p. 69 - 105 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Accounting Trends and Techniques
AICPA Posted: 2008
D Alexander , S Archer
On the myth of Anglo-Saxon financial accounting
International Journal of Accounting , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 539 - 557 Posted: 2000
Crossref
D Alexander , S Archer
European Accounting Guide Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Vincent Tawiah , Pran Boolaky
Determinants of IFRS Compliance in Africa: Analysis of Stakeholder Attributes
Tawiah, V. & Boolaky P. (2019). Determinants of IFRS compliance in Africa: analysis of Stakeholder Attributes. International Journal of Accounting & Information Management Vol. 27 (4), pp 573-599. · 26 Pages · Posted: 11 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 306
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
943
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,043
RANK
56,735
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies