Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What They Mean When They Use Quantifiers – An Empirical Investigation of IASB’s Staff Analysis Paper on ED 9

43 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2011

Sebastian Hoffmann

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

In order to assure transparency of the process of formation of a new International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS), the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) follows a strict due process. Part of this process is the analysis of comment letters sent to the IASB on the specific accounting problem under consideration. This analysis is prepared by IASB’s staff and informs the board of the IASB as well as the public on issues raised by the various interest groups. In the course of their analysis the staff uses verbal quantifiers in order to evaluate the amount of comment letters raising a certain issue or the frequency by which an issue has been raised. Unfortunately, these quantifiers are not officially defined. Against this background an analysis on the (numerical) meaning of these quantifiers is performed for the IASB’s Joint Venture project. It turns out that there is a certain ranking among the quantifiers, at least on an average basis. Besides this ranking, no further conclusions can be drawn from the quantifiers to the actual numbers underlying. In order to really be transparent in the due process, the paper therefore proposes to use actual numbers instead of verbal quantifiers within the analysis of comment letters or at least to explicitly define a numerical meaning of the quantifiers used.

Keywords: Accounting Standard Setting, Quantifiers, International Accounting Standards Board, IASB

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hoffmann, Sebastian, What They Mean When They Use Quantifiers – An Empirical Investigation of IASB’s Staff Analysis Paper on ED 9 (2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1857512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1857512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A Barton , P F Lazarsfeld
Some functions of qualitative data analysis in sociological research
Frankfurter Beiträge zur Soziologie. Frankfurt: Europäische Verlagsanstalt , p. 321 - 361 Posted: 1955
H S Becker
Sociological work: Method and substance Posted: 1970
Crossref
A K Bera , C M Jarque
Efficient tests for normality, homoscedasticity and serial independence of regression residuals
Economics Letters , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 255 - 259 Posted: 1980
B Berelson , P J Salter
Majority and Minority Americans: An Analysis of Magazine Fiction
Public Opinion Quarterly , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 168 - 190 Posted: 1946
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,513
RANK
663,174
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Methods: Qualitative & Multiple Methods eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies