Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mainstreams, Monsters and Global Accounting

12 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2011

Fabrizio Panozzo

Ca' Foscari University of Venice

Date Written: June 3, 2011

Abstract

Differences between accounting paradigms can be interpreted as the composite result of diverse influences and conditions of possibility, of which the purely scientific may be only one among others. Accordingly the epistemological interpretation of such a competition has been supplemented by a number of other perspectives (Arrington and Francis, 1989; Christenson, 1983; Chua, 1986; Lowe et al, 1983; Schreuder, 1985; Sterling, 1990; Tinker 1988; Tinker et al; 1982; Whitley, 1986, 1988, Zeff, 1989). Nevertheless such a manifold debate seems to leave relatively unexplored one additional interpretation such as the one dealing with the aims scopes and possible outcomes of a competitive game between research paradigms. In line with a proposed interpretation (Lukka and Kasanen, 1997) this short paper argues that the existence itself of a competition can be closely connected with an appealing rhetoric such the one of "globalization". As with many other products and production processes accounting research (and accounting education) can be seen as facing the challenges of internationalisation and responding to the attractive imperative of "going global."

Academic research and education are central in the globalization discourse not only because they provide a large extent of its cultural justification but also because they can be seen as a commodity offered on a fast growing market. New opportunities for the expansion of western academic education and research are emerging with the establishment of the "new world order." A number of significant events such as the independence of former soviet republics, the construction of unified (and standardised) European institutions, the reconstruction of eastern European democracies or the rapid economic growth of Asian economies are among the major determinant of insisting calls for globalization. In many of these cases not only institutions and economic infrastructures but also academic systems are said to be in need for reform or re-invention to keep up with predicaments of "global trends." From this point of view the debate between accounting paradigms can be reformulated around the issue of their globalization and of the degree of internationalisation of the research community build around them. Needless to say that the underlying dogma is that "Being local is bad, going global is good": traditions, customs, local accounting dialects are antiquated barriers a truly modern research community is supposed to overcome.

Suggested Citation:

Panozzo, Fabrizio, Mainstreams, Monsters and Global Accounting (June 3, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1857531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1857531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Such an awareness forces any cultural achievements to a dialogue which is simultaneously conducted from multiple points of view. The call is for the activation of
with variety rather than be equipped with intellectual tools based on assumptions of uniformity across cultures and social contexts
V A Beattie , R J Ryan
Performance Indexes and Related Measures of
Journal Reputation in Accounting , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 269 - 278 Posted: 1989
R Bettner , R Baker
Qualitative Research in Accounting: A critical commentary in its absence form accounting research, Paper Presented At The XVII EAA Posted: 1994
L D Brown , J C Gardner
Applying citation analysis to evaluate the research contribution of accounting faculty and doctoral programs
The Accounting Review , p. 262 - 277 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,545
RANK
703,106
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Influential Accounting Articles, Individuals, Ph.D. Granting Institutions and Faculties: A Citational Analysis

By Lawrence D. Brown

Ranking Journals Using Social Science Research Network Downloads

By Lawrence D. Brown

Doubly Disadvantaged or an Exception to the Rules? Minority Women in Accounting Academia

By Margaret Lightbody, Amelia A. Baldwin, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies