Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Following and Forecast Accuracy After Mandated IFRS Adoptions

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2011

Hongping Tan

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Shiheng Wang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Michael Welker

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Date Written: June, 15 2011

Abstract

This study investigates how accounting harmonization affects one particular group of financial statement users - financial analysts. We find that mandatory IFRS adoption attracts foreign analysts, particularly those from countries that are simultaneously adopting IFRS along with the covered firm’s country and those with prior IFRS experience. We also find that mandatory IFRS adoption improves foreign analysts’ forecast accuracy. The change in analyst following increases with the distance between prior local GAAP and IFRS and with the extent to which IFRS adoption eliminates GAAP differences between the firm’s country and the analyst’s country. IFRS adoption also attracts more local analysts, particularly those with prior IFRS experience and with an international portfolio prior to mandated IFRS adoption in their home country. Local analysts’ forecast accuracy is not affected by IFRS adoption. Overall, our results suggest that accounting harmonization brings comparability benefits that enhance the usefulness of accounting data.

Keywords: IFRS, accounting harmonization, analyst following, analysts' forecasts

JEL Classification: G14, G15, M441

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Hongping and Wang, Shiheng and Welker, Michael, Analyst Following and Forecast Accuracy After Mandated IFRS Adoptions (June, 15 2011). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1865369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
James S. Ang , Stephen J. Ciccone
International Differences in Analyst Forecast Properties
Pages: 57 Posted: 2 Jul 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H ; And M Ashbaugh , Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K-H.; R M Bae , H Stulz; And , Tan
Do Local Analysts Know More? A Cross-country Study of the Performance of Local Analysts and Foreign Analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Crossref
K-H.; H Bae , Tan
Load more
52 Citations
Georgios Georgakopoulos , Dimitrios Gounopoulos , Chen Huang , Victoria Patsika
The impact of IFRS adoption on IPO management earnings forecasts in Australia
Forthcoming: International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation · 51 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2013 · Last revised: 21 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 722
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zining Li , Qiliang Liu , Gerald J. Lobo , Le Luo
Mandatory Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Earnings Management: Evidence from China
43 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2014 · Downloads: 58
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bryan Byung-Hee Lee , Jay Junghun Lee
Financial Statement Comparability and Analysts’ Optimism for Accruals
British Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 53 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2014 · Last revised: 9 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 21
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Edward P. Swanson , Glen Young , Christopher Yust
Are All Activists Created Equal? The Effect of Interventions by Hedge Funds and Other Private Activists on Long-term Shareholder Value
Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2823067 · 73 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2016 · Last revised: 15 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 729
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
884
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,663
RANK
62,070
52 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies