Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Setting the Bar: Earnings Management During a Change in Accounting Standards

54 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2011

Vedran Capkun

HEC Paris

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Thomas Jeanjean

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control; ESSEC Business School

Lawrence A. Weiss

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: June 22, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of the accounting flexibility offered by IFRS 1 during the 2005 mandatory adoption of IFRS in the European Union. Same year reconciliations between local GAAP and IFRS are used on a sample of 1,635 European firms to determine the nature and extent of their use in managing earnings and earnings changes under IFRS. We posit and find that firms with negative Local GAAP earnings were more likely to report positive Local GAAP-to-IFRS earnings reconciliations, while firms with large positive earnings under Local GAAP were more likely to report negative Local GAAP-to-IFRS earnings reconciliations. Subsequently, in reporting periods following the adoption of IFRS, firms that reported positive (negative) reconciliations were more likely to show a decrease (an increase) in earnings. Finally, while we find no evidence of stock markets reacting to earnings management during the IFRS transition, we find strong evidence in support of CEOs managing earnings reconciliations to increase their compensation.

Keywords: IFRS, Earnings Quality, Earnings Management, Compensation

Suggested Citation:

Capkun, Vedran and Jeny, Anne and Jeanjean, Thomas and Jeanjean, Thomas and Weiss, Lawrence A., Setting the Bar: Earnings Management During a Change in Accounting Standards (June 22, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1870007 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1870007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
H Ashbaugh
Non-U.S. Firms' Accounting Standard Choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 53 Posted: 2001
Crossref
C Armstrong , M E Barth , A Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to Events Surrounding the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
François Aubert , Pascal Dumontier
Analyzing Brokers’ Expertise: Did Analysts Fully Anticipate the Impact of IFRS Adoption on Earnings? The European Evidence
Pages: 26 Posted: 17 Jun 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP Differences: The Impact on Foreign Analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
976
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,225
RANK
54,165
15 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies