Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the IFRS on the Debt Contracting Process: A Comparison Between UK and Italy

28 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2011

Nicola Moscariello

University of Naples II - Dept. of Economics

Michele Pizzo

University of Naples II - Department of Economics

Len Skerratt

Brunel University London - Economics and Finance; Philips College; Kingston University - Business School

Date Written: June 22, 2011

Abstract

This paper analyzes the economic consequences of the accounting harmonization process in two different institutional settings, the UK and Italy. The UK is a common-law country characterized by low ownership concentration, strong outsider legal protection, and a GAAP which is considered to be roughly equivalent in disclosure quality to the IFRS. Italy is a typical European code-law country, characterized by a weak outside investor protection system, and a GAAP significantly different from the IFRS model.

We find that, in the post IFRS period, accounting variables play a larger part in the determination of the cost of debt of Italian companies, enhancing the importance of financial reporting data relative to privately held information about borrowers’ credit ratings. In the UK there is no impact of mandatory adoption of IFRS on the cost of debt of listed companies.

Keywords: Debt Market, Cost of Debt, Accounting Regulation, Accounting Quality, Standard Setting, IAS/IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Moscariello, Nicola and Pizzo, Michele and Skerratt, Len, The Impact of the IFRS on the Debt Contracting Process: A Comparison Between UK and Italy (June 22, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1870065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1870065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Ali , L S Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and The Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S A Amhed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-Shareholder Conflicts Over Dividend Policy and in Reducing Debt Costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C Armstrong , M E Barth , A Jagolizer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,176
RANK
223,632
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies