Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comprehensive Income in Times of Crises: Evidence from Spanish Companies

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 89-100, 2010

12 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2011

Francisco Sousa Fernández

University of Cantabria

María Mercedes Carro Arana

University of Cantabria

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

Given the increasing importance of comprehensive income as an indicator of corporate performance internationally, especially since the revision of International Accounting Standard 1 (IAS 1) by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) in 2007, in this paper we intend to assess its impact on the more traditional net income during the period 2004-2008 for the select group of the Spanish IBEX-35 listed companies, pursuant to the information disclosed in accordance with said IAS. This will allow us to verify the importance of comprehensive income for the corporate groups at a time of serious financial and economic crisis as was 2008. The non-parametric Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test was used to perform the corresponding statistic comparisons, as the variables did not conform to normalcy. The results showed a statistically significant impact of comprehensive income on net income for three of the five years that were studied, especially for 2008, when there was a spectacular decline in corporate performance when considering the impact of the first on the second. This confers more informational relevance to comprehensive income, being much more in tune with market reality than traditional net income.

Keywords: Comprehensive Income, Net Income, Times of Crises, Spanish Companies (IBEX-35)

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Sousa Fernández, Francisco and Carro Arana, María Mercedes, Comprehensive Income in Times of Crises: Evidence from Spanish Companies (2010). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 89-100, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1871267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Reporting Financial Performance, (amended in 1993
Accounting Standards Board , volume 3 Posted: 1992
S S Alexander
Income Measurement in a Dynamic Economy
Five Monographs on Business Income, Study Group on Business Income, American Institute of Accountants (AIA) , p. 1 - 97 Posted: 1950
B Beale , H Davey
The Nature and Origins of Comprehensive Income
The Current State of Business Disciplines , volume 1 , p. 81 - 100 Posted: 2000
S Bhamornsiri , C Wiggins
Comprehensive Income Disclosures
The CPA Journal , p. 54 - 56 Posted: 2001-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,653
RANK
584,242
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies