Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and the U.S. Home Bias

48 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2011 Last revised: 24 Oct 2011

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 30, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines whether mandatory IFRS adoption at the country level lowers U.S. investors’ propensity to overweight domestic stocks in their common stock portfolios (generally referred to as home bias). We find that, on average, U.S. home bias decreases for countries that mandate IFRS adoption, after controlling for country-fixed effects. We also find that the reduction in the U.S. home bias after the mandatory adoption of IFRS is greater for countries with larger differences between IFRS and their domestic accounting standards, for countries with a stricter rule of law and a common law legal origin, and in countries with greater incentives to report high-quality financial information. Overall, our results indicate that a common set of global accounting standards matter for portfolio holdings of U.S. investors and that U.S investors regard the enforcement of standards to be a key factor in making investments outside the U.S.

Keywords: International Accounting, International Financial Reporting Standards, Home Bias, U.S. Investments

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Khurana, Inder and Michas, Paul N., Mandatory IFRS Adoption and the U.S. Home Bias (June 30, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1872239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1872239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P Wysocki
Portfolio preferences of foreign institutional investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Ahearne , W Griever , F Warnock
Information costs and home bias: an analysis of US holdings of foreign equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Dan Amiram
Financial Information Globalization and Foreign Investment Decisions
Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research,11 (2), 2012 Pages: 42 Posted: 12 Aug 2009 Last revised: 7 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John Matthew Ammer , Sara B. Holland , David Carl Smith , Francis E. Warnock
Look at Me Now: What Attracts U.S. Shareholders?
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System International Finance Discussion Paper No. 815, EFA 2004 Maastricht No. 4086, AFA 2006 Boston Meetings Paper Pages: 52 Posted: 30 Aug 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,547
RANK
189,166
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies