Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency of Corporate Carbon Disclosure: International Evidence

48 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2011

Qingliang Tang

University of Western Sydney

Le Luo

Macquarie University

Date Written: July 13, 2011

Abstract

Purpose – Increased awareness regarding environmental issues has encouraged corporations to disclose carbon related information. The study concerns carbon disclosure in the typical form of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP constitutes an international voluntary code developed by a non-government organization to encourage consideration of carbon emission issues in decision making. Such a code can flexibly bridge the gap between individual companies’ sustainability initiatives and mandatory, legal regulation. We examine the effectiveness of the code and the determinants of the transparency of the carbon disclosure. The study contributes to the understanding of management (dis)incentives to be (un)accountable for their carbon impact on global warming.

Design/methodology/approach – The paper is based on the academic literature on motivations for sustainability and environmental reporting, together with an analysis of the carbon disclosures made by the Global 500 firms. We assess the degree of transparency using the Carbon Disclosure Transparency Score (CDTS) adopted from the CDP reports. The CDTS focuses on carbon risks and opportunities, carbon footprints, carbon reduction activities, governance and verification of carbon information. We consider the influence of information needs of stakeholders and institutional effects on carbon transparency.

Findings – We find the CDP has attracted an overwhelming majority of the Global 500 to disclose carbon information. However, we observe a great disparity in carbon transparency between firms in different sectors and institutions. Our results show 74% of 243 firms in our sample achieved 50% or higher on the CDTS (sample average is 60%), so their reports are reasonably transparent, and the remaining were un-transparent (or opaque). We interpret the lack of transparency as evidence of a lack of managerial incentive to be accountable. In addition, we find firm size, leverage, industry membership, emission trading scheme (hereafter ETS), stringency of environmental regulation, as predicted, are significantly associated with carbon transparency.

Research limitations/implications –The results imply that stakeholder theory and institutional theory provide different but complementary explanations for the development of carbon disclosure practices. Future research is needed to gauge how the CDP code impacts front-line decision making. It could be useful to have further standardization of CDP reporting formats and contents, including more details about project-level implementation.

Practical implications – The CDP in its current incarnation is a system which produces assessable reports of carbon activities, and it encourages the development of web-based forms of corporate accountability. From the organization’s perspective, the study provides immediate feedback and has the potential to improve practice through the identification of forces for change not considered in prior theorizing. Based on the findings, we make some suggestions for improvement of carbon disclosure. Some firms have already been involved in voluntary external assurance, which added creditability and value to the reports. Use of voluntary external assurance should be encouraged.

Originality/value – Our study attempts to propose a research instrument to measure carbon transparency (obscurity) as a multi-item construct. Our findings help to illuminate the effectiveness of a voluntary code in the social construction of how stakeholder theory and institutional theory are to be interpreted and implemented. In addition, our international cross-sectional evidence for determinants of carbon transparency contrasts with findings in previous research focusing on general environmental issues, and research in national settings.

Keywords: Transparency of carbon disclosure, global 500 firms, environmental accountability, stakeholder theory, and institutional theory

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Qingliang and Luo, Le, Transparency of Corporate Carbon Disclosure: International Evidence (July 13, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1885230 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1885230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
199 References
C A Adams
Internal organisational factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting: beyond current theorising
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C A Adams
A commentary on: corporate social responsibility reporting and reputation risk management
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 365 - 370 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C A Adams , G Harte
The changing portrayal of the employment of women in British banks' and retail companies' corporate annual reports* 1
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 23 , issue 8 , p. 781 - 812 Posted: 1998
Crossref
C A Adams , C Larrinaga-Gonzá Lez
Engaging with organisations in pursuit of improved sustainability accounting and performance
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 355 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,013
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,800
RANK
51,500
9 Citations
199 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Revisiting the Relation between Environmental Performance and Environmental Disclosure: An Empirical Analysis

By Yue Li, Peter Clarkson, ...

Revisiting the Relation between Environmental Performance and Environmental Disclosure: An Empirical Analysis

By Yue Li, Peter Clarkson, ...

The Relations Among Environmental Disclosure, Environmental Performance, and Economic Performance: A Simultaneous Equations Approach

By Sulaiman Al-tuwaijri, Theodore E. Christensen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies