Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Evidence on Formal and Material Harmonization of National Accounting Standards

Journal of International Business Review, Forthcoming

14 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2011 Last revised: 24 Oct 2011

Lasmin

Directorate General of Taxes - Indonesia

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

This paper empirically measures and compares the levels and progress of formal and material harmonization in Indonesia. It reveals the extent of harmonization Indonesian Accounting Standards (PSAK) with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the improvement of that extent (de jure or formal harmonization). Additionally, it also uncovers the degree of the comparability of Indonesian companies' choices of accounting treatments and the improvement of that degree (de facto or material harmonization). Formal harmonization is measured by assessing 43 accounting methods of 18 accounting standards of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 2007 and their corresponding standards in Indonesian Accounting Standards (PSAK) 2003 and 2007, applying Jaccard’s Coefficients, Spearman’s Correlation Coefficients, Euclidean Distances, and Chi-square statistics. Using the same accounting methods, material harmonization is measured by examining 2004 and 2008 financial statements of 100 listed Indonesian companies and applying H index, C index, and Chi-square statistics.

This paper finds that the extents of formal and material harmonization are high, although some divergences still occur. However, the improvement of formal harmonization is not followed by that of material harmonization.

Keywords: Harmonization, IFRS, Indonesian Accounting Standards, Measurement, PSAK

Suggested Citation:

Lasmin, Lasmin, Empirical Evidence on Formal and Material Harmonization of National Accounting Standards (2011). Journal of International Business Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1893645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1893645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
S Archer , D Pascale , S Mcleay
The Measurement of Harmonisation and the Comparability of Financial Statement Items: Within-Country and Between-Country Effects
Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 98 , p. 67 - 80 Posted: 1995
Crossref
D Barton , P Coombes , S Wong
Transparency: Asia's Governance Challenge
The McKinsey Quarterly , issue 2 , p. 54 - 61 Posted: 2004
Deloitte Bdo , Ey , Gt , &amp; Kpmg , Pwc
GAAP Convergence. A Survey of National Efforts to Promote & Achieve Convergence with International Financial Reporting Standards Posted: 2002
L Canibano , A Mora
Evaluating the Statistical Significance of de facto Accounting Harmonization: A Study of European Global Players
Accounting and Business Research , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 349 - 369 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ali S. Bukhammas , Abdelmohsen M. Desoky
An Empirical Examination on the Degree of Accounting Harmonization of PPE and Inventory
, p. 1 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,169
RANK
151,526
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies