Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Institutional Perspective on International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption in Developing Countries

Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, Vol. 15, 2011

10 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2011 Last revised: 24 Oct 2011

Lasmin

Directorate General of Taxes - Indonesia

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

A set of accounting standards does not develop in a vacuum. Political, economic, and social aspects of the jurisdiction in which a set of standards operates reciprocally influence these standards. The fact that the International Financial Accounting Standards (IFRS) has become a globalized set of accounting standards, marked by the use of the standards in more than 120 countries, raises an important question. What factors could significantly influence countries' decisions to adopt IFRS? This paper investigates the relationship between the decisions of developing countries to adopt IFRS and those countries' institutional contexts. Using linear regression and logit model to analyze a sample of 46 developing countries` decisions to adopt or not to adopt IFRS and by drawing upon DiMaggio and Powell's (1983) Institutional Isomorphism theory, this paper reveals that IFRS adoption is significantly related to social pressures of isomorphic changes which contradicts the current mainstream belief that adoption is highly associated with its corresponding economic benefits. It hints that the decision of developing countries to adopt IFRS is motivated more by social pressures of legitimacy, than it is by economic reasoning.

Keywords: Adoption, IFRS, Institutional Isomorphism, International Accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lasmin, Lasmin, An Institutional Perspective on International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption in Developing Countries (2011). Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, Vol. 15, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1893624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
P J Dimaggio , W W Powell
The Iron Cage Revisited: Institutional Isomorphism and Collective Rationality in Organizational Fields
American Sociological Review , p. 147 - 160 Posted: 1983-04
Crossref
Y Ding , T Jeanjean , H Stolwy
Why do National GAAP differ from IAS? The role of culture
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , p. 325 - 350 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Doupnik , M Taylor
An Empirical Investigation of the Observance of IASC Standards in Western Europe
Management International Review , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 33 Posted: 1985
M K Hassan
Financial accounting regulations and organizational change: a Habermasian perspective
Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 289 - 317 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
561
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,217
RANK
112,534
3 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies