Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unwanted Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption on International Trade and Investments in Developing Countries

Journal of Economics and Economic Education Research, Forthcoming

12 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2011 Last revised: 24 Oct 2011

Lasmin

Directorate General of Taxes - Indonesia

Date Written: July 26, 2011

Abstract

The year 2010 witnessed two major business phenomena in the world. First, an unprecedented degree of consensus among more than 120 countries to require or permit the use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in their jurisdictions and; second, for the first time in history Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in developing countries reached a half of global investment inflows that are expected to lift up to over $2 trillion in 2012. When the International Organization of Securities Exchange Commissions (IOSCO) ratified International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in 2002, FDI inflows started to grow from $'36 trillion to $1 trillion in 2005. Furthermore, when the European Union (EU) required its member to use IFRS in 2005, FDI inflows has doubled and reached its peak in 2007 at more than $2 trillion. The global trade also experienced the same increasing trend. Assuming that adopting IFRS promotes higher comparability and transparency of accounting information, the bigger question is does adopting IFRS affect countries’ FDI inflows and values of international trade?

To answer this question, we examine the effects of IFRS adoption on international trade and FDI inflows in developing countries. After controlling for generally accepted determinants of FDI inflows and international trade, we find a contradictory fact that developing countries adopting IFRS are unlikely to experience higher FDI inflows and international trade.

Keywords: Effects of Adoption, IFRS, International Accounting, International Trade, FDI

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Lasmin, Lasmin, The Unwanted Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption on International Trade and Investments in Developing Countries (July 26, 2011). Journal of Economics and Economic Education Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1895121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
T Addison , A Heshmati
The New Global Determinants of FDI Flows to Developing Countries Posted: 2003
M Baxter , M A Kouparitsas
What determines filateral trade flows? Cambridge Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Bitzer , H Gorg
Foreign Direct Investment, Competition and Industry Performance Posted: 2008
Crossref
F D Choi , R M Levich
International Accounting and Finance Handbook (pp. 6.1-6.26) Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,483
RANK
115,646
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies