Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Transfer Pricing Problem: When Multinational Corporations Shift Profits Across International Borders

11 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2011

Baitshepi Tebogo

The Learning Village(Pty)Ltd

Date Written: July 30, 2011

Abstract

The transfer pricing problem arises where corporations are divisionalised and have responsibility centres operating as strategic business units, a situation that presents challenges in determining suitable prices for intra-group transactions. The transfer pricing problem becomes even more critical where a company has subsidiaries spread throughout the world, in countries that have varying tax rates. Under this situation, it is common for multinational corporations to attempt to minimise their tax liabilities by shifting profits from higher tax countries to lower tax regimes. This practice is highly detested by tax authorities, the world over, and international efforts are underway to develop measures to stop it. One of the methods being tried involves the use of Advance Pricing Agreements (APAs), which have so far proven ideal in minimising disputes between multinational corporations and tax authorities.

Keywords: transfer pricing, profit shifting, market based transfer prices, cost based transfer prices, dual prices, two-part tariff, advance pricing agreements

Suggested Citation:

Tebogo, Baitshepi, The Transfer Pricing Problem: When Multinational Corporations Shift Profits Across International Borders (July 30, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1899014 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1899014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
M F Al-Eryani , P &amp; S H Alam , Akhter
Transfer Pricing Determinants of US Multinationals
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 409 - 425 Posted: 1990-04
Crossref
M Brem
Bureaucracy to Cooperation? On the Evolution of Hybrid Governance in International Taxation. Harvard Law School International Tax Program Posted: 2002
S Gupta
Transfer Pricing-An International Issue concerning the Balance of Interest Between the Tax Payer and the Tax Administrator
Company Law Journal. Available at Posted: 2009
C W &amp; H C Lin , Chang
Motives of Transfer Pricing Strategies-Systemic Analysis
Industrial Management & Data Systems , volume 110 , issue 8 , p. 1215 - 1233 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Dinah M. Payne , Cecily A. Raiborn
Aggressive Tax Avoidance: A Conundrum for Stakeholders, Governments, and Morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 147 , issue 3 , p. 469 Posted: 2018
Crossref
John MacCarthy
The Anti-Tax Avoidance Legislation and the Operations of Multinational Companies in Ghana: The Way Forward for the Multinational Companies
15 Pages · Posted: 26 May 2016 · Downloads: 419
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,575
RANK
16,042
2 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies