Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms’ Share Price Reactions to the American Jobs Creation Act

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation, No. 18, pp. 141-151, 2009

Posted: 4 Aug 2011

Garth Novack

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Raynolde Pereira

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 permitted a one-time 85% dividend received deduction for repatriated foreign earnings. A stated purpose of this legislation was to permit companies to access foreign earnings domestically that would have been too costly previously because of repatriation taxation. Using a portfolio analysis we find that firms with large foreign asset balances experienced significantly positive returns during the legislative window for the Jobs Act, and that these findings also hold for sub-samples that are designated as financially constrained or highly leveraged. These results indicate that the market perceived passage of the Jobs Act as good news for those firms with the need, domestically, for these unrepatriated foreign earnings.We conclude that these findings are supportive of the policy intentions that formed the basis of the temporary reduction in the repatriation taxes.

Keywords: American Jobs Creation Act, Foreign earnings, Repatriation, Cash constraints

JEL Classification: F23, H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Novack, Garth and Martin, Xiumin and Pereira, Raynolde, Firms’ Share Price Reactions to the American Jobs Creation Act (2009). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation, No. 18, pp. 141-151, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1904584
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Global Business Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies