Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Policy Changes and the Continuation of National Patterns of IFRS Practice

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2011

Erlend Kvaal

BI Norwegian Business School

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: August 2, 2011

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) contain several policy options. This paper examines the choices made in 2008/9 IFRS financial statements by large listed companies from five countries on all the options that are observable. We compare these choices with those that had been made by the same companies in 2005/6, which (except for the German companies) was the year of transition to IFRS. For Australian and UK companies, we find, as expected, that there were few policy changes. However, despite the constraints on policy change within IFRS, we find that French and Spanish companies not only made more changes than the other companies but that they also made more changes after transition than at transition. Further investigation reveals that these findings are largely driven by a small number of topics. One possible explanation for the pattern of these changes is a „learning‟ process, which is supported by finding that nearly all the post-transition changes made by the French and Spanish companies were away from previous national requirements. However, we consider other possible explanations. We also present the profiles of IFRS practices for 2008/9. Despite the changes in policy from 2005/6, we find clear evidence that national patterns of IFRS practice continue through the period, so that international comparability remains in doubt.

Keywords: international standards, international differences, policy choices

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kvaal, Erlend and Nobes, Christopher William, IFRS Policy Changes and the Continuation of National Patterns of IFRS Practice (August 2, 2011). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1905988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
K Alfredson
Pathway to 2005 IASB standards , volume 13 , p. 3 - 7 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
International Accounting Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
473
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,090
RANK
138,716
7 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Institutional & Transition Economics Policy Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies