Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Situating IFRS Translation in the EU within Speed Wobbles of Convergence

22 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2012

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Lisa Evans

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2011

Abstract

The objective of this study is to demonstrate the degree to which debate about translation in the EU, and translation specifically of IFRS in the EU, generates both: • Deeply held convictions about language; and • Diversity of views on key issues even within translators into one language group.

This study describes the empirics and method of data collection, and then offers detailed analysis of five issues faced by translators, drawing examples from each of the major language family groups in the EU. The data used in this study are derived from 109 responses to a survey of IFRS translators, members of IFRS translation committees or review panels, and textbook writers in the EU; undertaken in 2009. Each ‘Language Family Example’ illustrates deeply-held convictions about language; and diversity of views even among highly experienced translators.

These empirical data also illustrate translators’ awareness that the ‘English’ in which IFRS are written may impact on the ease or difficulties in translation. In nation-states where there is a relatively low level of foreign language study, there may be a greater number of accounting teachers, standard-setters, textbook writers and regulators who are unaware of such diversity and emotion. This study contributes towards understanding some key language issues during the IFRS convergence programme.

Keywords: EU, IFRS, translation

JEL Classification: M1

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Evans, Lisa, Situating IFRS Translation in the EU within Speed Wobbles of Convergence (October 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1913448 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1913448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A H Adelberg , G E Farelly
‗Measuring the meaning of financial statement terminology: a psycholinguistics approach
Accounting & Finance , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 61 Posted: 1989
Crossref
S Aisbitt , C Nobes
‗The true and fair view requirement in recent national implementations
Accounting and Business Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 83 - 90 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Alexander
‗A European true and fair view?
European Accounting Review , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 80 Posted: 1993
Crossref
D Alexander , C Nobes
Financial Accounting: An International Introduction. Pearson/Financial Times Posted: 2007
Load more
2 Citations
Marta García González
Dificultades, estrategias y recursos en la traducción de estados financieros: fuentes normativas y textos paralelos
Meta , volume 64 , issue 2 , p. 491 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Rachel F. Baskerville , Huw Rhys
A Research Note on Understandability, Readability and Translatability of IFRS
13 Pages · Posted: 22 Dec 2014 · Downloads: 420
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,384
RANK
294,906
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies