Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Target Price Accuracy: International Evidence

The Accounting Review, VOLUME 88, No. 3 May 2013

Posted: 23 Aug 2011 Last revised: 25 Jan 2013

Pawel Bilinski

Bayes Business School, City University London

Danielle Lyssimachou

The University of Manchester - Division of Accounting and Finance; City University London - The Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: August 23, 2011

Abstract

Using an international sample of 16 countries, this paper examines if analyst- and country-specific characteristics explain the variation in target price (TP) accuracy. We find significant variation in average TP accuracy across countries that is due to differences in accounting disclosure quality, the origin of the legal system, cultural traits and IFRS regulation. We also find that analysts exhibit differential and persistent ability to forecast target prices accurately, which confirms that some analysts have superior TP forecasting ability.

Keywords: target prices, forecast accuracy, analyst characteristics, institutional and regulatory differences across countries

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Bilinski, Pawel and Lyssimachou, Danielle and Lyssimachou, Danielle and Walker, Martin, Target Price Accuracy: International Evidence (August 23, 2011). The Accounting Review, VOLUME 88, No. 3 May 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1915082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1915082
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,129
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies