Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on the Cross Country Variations in the Mispricing of Accruals Surrounding the Introduction of IFRS in Europe

47 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2011 Last revised: 11 Jun 2013

Elisabetta Basilico

International Center of Corporate Governance

Tommi Johnsen

University of Denver - Daniels College of Business

Date Written: August 29, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of the mandatory introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in 2005 on the presence and magnitude of the accruals mispricing in seventeen European countries, which are characterized by different institutional, accounting and governance systems. Even if the aim of IFRS was and still is international harmonization and comparability, we find cross country variations.

Keywords: accruals mispricing, future stock returns, IFRS, Europe

JEL Classification: G14

Suggested Citation:

Basilico, Elisabetta and Johnsen, Thomajean, Evidence on the Cross Country Variations in the Mispricing of Accruals Surrounding the Introduction of IFRS in Europe (August 29, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1918586 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1918586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 202 Posted: 1993
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , Pincus , M
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 33 - 52 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , Ifrs
Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball
Market and Political/Regulatory Perspectives on the Recent Accounting Scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,694
RANK
339,352
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies