Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deviations from the Mandatory Adoption of IFRS in the European Union: Implementation, Enforcement, Incentives, and Compliance

62 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2011 Last revised: 25 Jan 2017

Grace Pownall

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Maria Rykaczewski

Arizona State University

Date Written: January 1, 2017

Abstract

In this paper, we evaluate the common assertion that EU firms began using IFRS by 2005 when the EU formally adopted IFRS. We find that although the incidence of firms using local (or some other) GAAP has declined between 2005 and 2009, it is still nontrivial. For instance, by 2009 the incidence of non-IFRS financial statements was still in excess of 17% (42% of which were fully consolidated). We estimate a model of the non-adoption of IFRS as a function of proxies for EU-wide and country-specific implementation of the IFRS regulation, country-specific enforcement mechanisms, and firm-specific reporting incentives. We find that being traded in EU-regulated markets, preparing fully consolidated financial statements, and having a more diversified corporate structure are positively associated with the likelihood of using IFRS, and using US GAAP in the preceding year is significantly negatively associated with adopting IFRS. We find little evidence that country-specific enforcement is associated with IFRS adoption during our time period. Finally, we find that several reporting incentives proxies are associated with adopting IFRS, such as being large and closely-held with wider analyst following. We interpret our results to mean that many EU firms do not use IFRS; that firms exploited definitions, exemptions, and deferrals in the regulation to avoid adopting IFRS; and that firms responded to their reporting incentives in making the decision to adopt IFRS.

Keywords: EU, IFRS, enforcement, reporting incentives

Suggested Citation:

Pownall, Grace and Rykaczewski, Maria, Deviations from the Mandatory Adoption of IFRS in the European Union: Implementation, Enforcement, Incentives, and Compliance (January 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1919805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1919805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
_____
Document discussed in the Expert Group on the IAS Regulation meeting 3/12/2014, Agenda item III (final version)
on the Application of International Accounting Standards. Answers available at Posted: 2002-07
P Fiechter , J Halberkann , C Meyer
Have International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) become too extensive for small and mid-cap companies Posted: 2014
Joachim Gassen , Thorsten Sellhorn
Applying IFRS in Germany: Determinants and Consequences
Pages: 38 Posted: 7 Jun 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Glaum , P Schmidt , D L Street , S Vogel
Compliance with IFRS 3-and IAS 36-required disclosures across 17 European countries: company-and country-level determinants
Accounting and business research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 163 - 204 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
699
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,493
RANK
84,788
15 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Institutions: European Union eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies