Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Auditor Choice Matter to Foreign Investors? Evidence from Foreign Mutual Funds Worldwide

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2011 Last revised: 15 Aug 2014

Julia Chou

Florida International University

Nataliya S. Zaiats

Suffolk University - Sawyer School of Management

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Date Written: March 2014

Abstract

This paper examines whether firms' auditor choice affects their ability to access foreign equity capital. Using the equity holdings of 34,837 foreign mutual funds from 28 countries, we find evidence that appointing a Big 4 auditor increases the level of foreign mutual fund ownership in firms. This link strengthens in firms with high information asymmetries and persists even at the country level. But the importance of auditor choice varies across three exogenous information events. The Big 4 effect declines after the Enron-Andersen fiasco in 2002, especially for non-U.S. firms not subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Auditor choice and IFRS adoption play complementary roles in determining a firm's foreign ownership, and such roles are more pronounced in firms from countries with strong securities regulations and enforcement regimes. Finally, appointing Big 4 auditors is particularly important for firms to attract foreign capital during the 2008 global financial crisis.

Keywords: foreign mutual funds, auditor choice, IFRS, Enron-Andersen Collapse, and 2008 global financial crisis

JEL Classification: G11, G23, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chou, Wen-Hsiu and Zaiats, Nataliya S. and Zhang, Bohui, Does Auditor Choice Matter to Foreign Investors? Evidence from Foreign Mutual Funds Worldwide (March 2014). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1921112 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1921112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P Wysocki
Portfolio preferences of foreign institutional investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Ahearne , W Griever , F Warnock
Information costs and home bias: an analysis of U.S. holdings of foreign equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Sharad Asthana , Steven Balsam , Jagan Krishnan
Audit Firm Reputation and Client Stock Price Reactions: Evidence from the Enron Experience
Posted: 20 Jul 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,078
RANK
282,998
8 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies