Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market and Operating Efficiency of Firms in Emerging Gulf Countries

34 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2011

Reza Chowdhury

University of Dubai

Date Written: September 13, 2011

Abstract

We determine the operating efficiency of business entities in six emerging Gulf countries, and examine whether the disciplinary and monitoring roles of capital markets can improve firm’s operating efficiency in the region. By using stochastic frontier approach, we find that firm efficiency level ranges from 62% to 70%, on average, in the Gulf region. However, the magnitude of such efficiency varies across different industries and individual countries of the region. We also find that the effectiveness of external monitoring role by financial institutions is insignificant in improving firm’s operating efficiency in emerging Gulf countries. In contrast, an improvement in internal financial performance results in an increase in operating efficiency of Middle-East firms. This finding is indeed useful for potential investors in their portfolio investment decisions, and for policymakers in initiating necessary measures to strengthen capital market’s contribution in the Gulf region.

Keywords: operating efficiency, capital market, Gulf countries, stochastic frontier approach

JEL Classification: G3, G15

Suggested Citation:

Chowdhury, Reza, Capital Market and Operating Efficiency of Firms in Emerging Gulf Countries (September 13, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1926546 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1926546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
W Abdmoulah
Testing the evolving efficiency of Arab stock markets
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 34 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D J Aigner , C A K Lovell , P Schmidt
Formulation and Estimation of Stochastic Frontier Production Function Models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 37 Posted: 1977
Crossref
R T Ariss , R Rezvanian , S M Mehdian
Cost Efficiency, Technological Progress and Productivity Growth of Banks in GCC Countries
International Journal of Business , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 471 - 491 Posted: 2007
B Asiri
Testing weak-form efficiency in a Bahrain stock market
International Journal of Emerging Markets , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 53 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,707
RANK
640,442
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What Do We Know About Capital Structure? Some Evidence from International Data

By Raghuram G. Rajan and Luigi Zingales

The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: Evidence from the Field

By John R. Graham and Campbell R. Harvey

Capital Structure Puzzle

By Stewart C. Myers

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies