Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multinationality and the Performance of IPOs

36 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2011

Ram Mudambi

Temple University - Department of Strategic Management

Susan M. Mudambi

Fox School of Business, Temple University

Arif Khurshed

University of Manchester - Manchester Business School, Division of Accounting Finance

Marc Goergen

IE Business School, IE University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 20, 2011

Abstract

Does multinationality affect the initial public offering (IPO) performance of entrepreneurial firms? Theoretical arguments can be made for a positive effect of multinationality as well for a negative effect. We examine this question empirically by analyzing IPO data for 240 U.K. firms. We find that multinationality has significant and positive effects on long run IPO performance. This suggests that the market perceives entrepreneurial firms with multinational activities as possessing unique intangible assets that are indicative of future financial success. Factors affecting the IPO performance also differ systematically between firms with multinational operations and those without multinational operations. Stocks of intangible assets and the quality of the network significantly affect the performance of entrepreneurial IPO firms that “go global”. In contrast, domestic IPO firm performance is affected by offer size and underwriters’ perception of firm quality. The findings have important implications for entrepreneurial firms who are making decisions on “going global” and “going public”. This paper is forthcoming in Applied Financial Economics.

Suggested Citation:

Mudambi, Ram and Mudambi, Susan M. and Khurshed, Arif and Goergen, Marc, Multinationality and the Performance of IPOs (June 20, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1931025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1931025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Aggarwal , R Leal , L Hernandez
The after-market performance of Initial Public Offerings in Latin America
Financial Management , volume 22 , p. 42 - 53 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Alvarez , J Barney
Discovery and creation: alternative theories of entrepreneurial action
Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 11 - 26 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K J Arrow
The economics of agency
Mathematical Studies in the Social Sciences Technical Report Posted: 1984-10
B Bayus , R Agarwal
The role of pre-entry experience, entry timing, and product technology strategies in explaining firm survival
Management Science , volume 53 , issue 12 , p. 1887 - 1902 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,071
RANK
449,075
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Short-Run Price Performance of Investment Trust Ipos on the UK Main Market

By Ram Mudambi and Arif Khurshed

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies