Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Does Audit Quality Start to Decline in Firm Audit Tenure? - An International Analysis

45 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2011

Li (Lily) Brooks

Texas A&M International University

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Joe Johnston

Illinois State University - Department of Accounting

Kenneth John Reichelt

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 25, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates the decline in audit quality during an audit firm’s tenure across countries with varying degrees of legal liability. We propose that audit quality can increase through a learning effect in early years but in later years it is likely to decrease due to a bonding effect. Using a quadratic model, we estimate the year when audit quality, measured by earnings quality, starts to decline during an audit firm’s tenure. We propose that the bonding effect should be weaker in countries with stricter legal liability regimes, which implies that the year that audit quality begins to decline should be later in countries with stricter legal liability regimes. We find that it takes 14 to 16 years for countries with stronger legal liability regimes while it only takes 4 to 10 years for countries with weaker legal liability regimes for audit quality to decline. Our results are strong regardless of whether we measure legal liability from the perspective of legal origin (common or code law) or litigation risk. Our findings have implications across the world for the current debate on the mandatory requirement of audit firm rotation across the world.

Suggested Citation:

Brooks, Li and Cheng, Agnes and Johnston, Joseph Atkins and Reichelt, Kenneth John, When Does Audit Quality Start to Decline in Firm Audit Tenure? - An International Analysis (September 25, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1933488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1933488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J H Anthony , K Ramesh
Association between Accounting Performance Measures and Stock Prices : A Test of the Life Cycle Hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 15 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 203 - 227 Posted: 1992
B Arrunada , C Paz-Ares
Mandatory Rotation of Company Auditors: A Critical Examination
International Review of Law & Economics , volume 17 , issue 1 Posted: 1997
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
867
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,692
RANK
63,808
2 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies