Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulations, Bailouts and Bank Shareholders’ Wealth: An International Analysis

41 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2011

Mahmud Hossain

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Pankaj K. Jain

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Date Written: June 17, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines the effectiveness of worldwide banking regulations and supervisions in providing a balanced risk-reward trade-off to bank shareholders. Our comprehensive global analysis of 2,467 banks across the world identifies the regulatory frameworks that are associated with favorable risk-return profile trade-off during normal growth as well as financial crisis periods. Ownership structure and restrictions on types of business activities both stand out as the most effective regulatory mechanisms as they increase return and reduce risk. Auditing and disclosures are good regulations and enhance stock valuations in growth periods but ironically these measures bring problems to light more quickly in crisis environment and result in greater stock holder losses. Entry restrictions or blanket depositor insurance mechanisms are the worst forms of regulation from stock investor perspective because they lower return in growth periods and increase risk in the crisis periods. German legal origins and mandatory provisioning regulations signify conservative policies as they lower the return in times of growth but also lower the risk in crisis periods. Finally, we investigate whether recent regulatory interventions could effectively curtail bank shareholder wealth loss. We infer based on our findings that direct capital injection by government, or tax breaks did not boost stock valuations as much as government guarantees, infrastructure spending and initiatives to buy toxic assets did.

Keywords: Financial Crisis, Bank Regulations, Global, Bailout

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Mahmud and Jain, Pankaj K., Regulations, Bailouts and Bank Shareholders’ Wealth: An International Analysis (June 17, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1933931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1933931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
J R Barth , G Caprio , J R , R Levine
Banking systems around the globe: Do regulations and ownership affect performance and stability? Prudential Supervision: What Works and What Doesn't Posted: 2001
J R Barth , G Caprio , J R , R Levine
Bank regulation and supervision: What works best
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 13 , p. 205 - 248 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J R Barth , G Caprio , J R , R Levine
Bank regulations are changing; for better or worse?
Comparative Economic Studies , volume 50 , p. 537 - 565 Posted: 2008
Crossref
George J Benston
Consumer protection as a justification for regulating financial service firms and products
Journal of Financial Services Research Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,252
RANK
427,404
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies