Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Preparers Perceive Costs and Benefits of IFRS for SMEs? Empirical Evidence from the Netherlands

Accounting in Europe, Fall 2012

Posted: 23 Mar 2012 Last revised: 10 Oct 2012

Robin Litjens

Nyenrode Business University; Tilburg University - CentER and Department of Accountancy

Sanjay Bissessur

Amsterdam Business School - University of Amsterdam

Henk P. A. J. Langendijk

University of Amsterdam

Ruud Vergoossen

Nyenrode Business University; Maastricht University

Date Written: March 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper examines how preparers perceive the association between costs and benefits of IFRS for SMEs. Extant research on costs and benefits associated with IFRS for SMEs is inconclusive. Our results suggest that preparers consider costs and benefits of IFRS for SMEs separately, not concurrently, and evaluate them in relative terms. Taken together, the results indicate that a voluntary adoption decision depends on the preparers’ context for the cost-benefit analysis, which appears to be a non-linear process. Specifically, our findings could contribute to the discussion by the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG) on taking the effects of accounting standards into account whilst developing standards.

Keywords: IFRS for SMEs, Private Firms, Accounting Standards Choice

JEL Classification: D23, D80, M41

Suggested Citation:

Litjens, Robin and Bissessur, Sanjay and Langendijk, Henk P. A. J. and Vergoossen, Ruud, How Do Preparers Perceive Costs and Benefits of IFRS for SMEs? Empirical Evidence from the Netherlands (March 1, 2012). Accounting in Europe, Fall 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1940646
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,970
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies