Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Institutional and Economic Factors in the Strategic Use of Non-GAAP Disclosures to Beat Earnings Benchmarks

European Accounting Review Forthcoming

Posted: 7 Oct 2011 Last revised: 8 Feb 2014

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: February 7, 2014

Abstract

We use hand-collected data for a sample of large European firms to investigate the influence of countries’ institutional and economic factors on managers’ non-GAAP disclosures. We find that managers are more likely to use non-GAAP measures to meet or beat earnings benchmarks that GAAP earnings would miss in countries with efficient law and enforcement, strong investor protection, developed financial markets, and good communication and dissemination of information. We also find that managers in countries with developed institutional and economic conditions are more likely to adjust non-GAAP earnings for recurring expenses such as R&D, depreciation, and stock-based compensation expenses. Our findings suggest that in environments in which there is more pressure to achieve earnings benchmarks and less opportunity to manipulate GAAP earnings, managers use more non-GAAP earnings disclosures to meet the benchmarks.

Keywords: pro forma earnings; alternative earnings; consensus; profit

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Isidro, Helena and Marques, Ana Cristina, The Role of Institutional and Economic Factors in the Strategic Use of Non-GAAP Disclosures to Beat Earnings Benchmarks (February 7, 2014). European Accounting Review Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1940514 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1940514
 Not Available for Download
0 References
22 Citations
Young-Soo Choi , Steven Young
Transitory Earnings Components and the Two Faces of Non-GAAP Earnings
Published in Accounting and Finance, 2015, Vol. 55 · 42 Pages · Posted: 26 Jul 2012 · Last revised: 21 Jan 2016 · Downloads: 309
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dirk E. Black , Ervin L. Black , Theodore E. Christensen , William G. Heninger
Has the Regulation of Pro Forma Reporting in the US Changed Investors’ Perceptions of Pro Forma Earnings Disclosures?
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 39 , issue 7-8 , p. 876 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Ross Jennings , Ana Marques
The Joint Effects of Corporate Governance and Regulation on the Disclosure of Manager‐Adjusted Non‐GAAP Earnings in the US
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 38 , issue 3-4 , p. 364 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Nerissa C. Brown , Theodore E. Christensen , W. Brooke Elliott
The Timing of Quarterly ‘Pro Forma’ Earnings Announcements
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 39 , issue 3-4 , p. 315 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,763
22 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies