Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Audit Profession Development in Emerging Market Countries

Accounting Review (2011) Vol. 86 (5): 1731-1764

Posted: 25 Oct 2011 Last revised: 11 Sep 2013

Paul N. Michas

University of Arizona - Eller College of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2011

Abstract

This study investigates the country-level development of the audit profession in emerging market countries and whether this development is associated with audit quality and auditor choice. I find that audit quality is higher for client companies located in countries with a more developed audit profession, after controlling for rule of law and investor protection. Specifically, Big 4 client companies’ total and abnormal accruals are both lower, and earnings are more conservative in countries with stronger Audit Profession Development (APD). However, these results hold only for companies audited by a Big 4 auditor. Results also indicate that stronger APD is associated with a greater likelihood that a client company hires a Big 4 auditor. My findings contribute to the literature that explores differences in audit quality and determinants of auditor choice, the literature that explores cross-country differences in audit professions, and research on the characteristics and effectiveness of audit institutions in emerging market economies.

Keywords: audit profession, auditor choice, audit quality, developing countries, emerging markets, international accounting

JEL Classification: M00, M4

Suggested Citation:

Michas, Paul N., The Importance of Audit Profession Development in Emerging Market Countries (September 1, 2011). Accounting Review (2011) Vol. 86 (5): 1731-1764, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1941946
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies