Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Usefulness of Corporate Financial Reports: Evidence from the United Arab Emirates

Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 17-37, 2011

21 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2012

Abdulkareem Alzarouni

National Bank of Abu Dhabi

Khaled Aljifri

United Arab Emirates University

Chew Ng

Griffith University - Griffith Business School

Mohammad Iqbal Tahir

University of Faisalabad

Date Written: January 4, 2012

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine the usefulness of financial reports to users in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). It is an attempt to find out whether current practices satisfy users’ needs of information and the extent to which these needs have been satisfied by the current disclosure practices of UAE companies. A survey questionnaire was used to explore whether the financial reports published by UAE firms were relevant to the needs of their users and to identify the disclosure items they perceived as important. Of the 512 questionnaires distributed to major external users of financial reports, 404 were returned. The results indicate that users in the UAE consider corporate annual reports to be the most important source of information. However, the level of corporate financial disclosure in the UAE does not provide sufficient information to the users. In fact, it meets only 61% of the needs reported by external users of financial reports. The users also nominated several areas of concerns, including delays in the availability of annual reports, the lack of creditability of financial information, and the non-accessibility of financial reports.

Keywords: Corporate financial disclosure, information needs, user groups, usefulness, UAE firms

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Alzarouni, Abdulkareem and Aljifri, Khaled and Ng, Chew and Tahir, Mohammad Iqbal, The Usefulness of Corporate Financial Reports: Evidence from the United Arab Emirates (January 4, 2012). Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 17-37, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1946920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
M Abdelsalam
The use of corporate financial reports by investors in Saudi Arabia
Advances in International Accounting , volume 3 , p. 25 - 39 Posted: 1990
M Abu-Nassar
The Development of Financial Reporting in Jordan: A Survey of Prepares' and Users' Attitudes and Reporting Practices. Unpublished Ph Posted: 1993
M Abu-Nassar , Rutherford , B
Preparers' attitude to financial reporting in less developed countries with moderately sophisticated capital markets: The case of Jordan
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 30 , p. 129 - 138 Posted: 1995
M Abu-Nassar , Rutherford , B
External users of financial reports in less developed countries: The case of Jordan
British Accounting Review , volume 28 , p. 73 - 87 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
567
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,678
RANK
110,980
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies