Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Accruals, Earnings, and Cash Flows: Evidence from Latin America

Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 95-107, 2012

13 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2012

Carlos Omar Trejo-Pech

University of Tennessee, Knoxville

Magdy Noguera

Southeastern Louisiana University

Angel Samaniego

ITESO

Richard N. Weldon

University of Florida - Food & Resource Economics Department

Date Written: January 4, 2012

Abstract

The relationships between earnings, accruals, and cash flows for selected Latin American countries (Mexico, Chile, and Argentina) are investigated in this study from 1990 to 2009. We find a negative relationship between accruals and cash flow across decile portfolios. More importantly, firms reporting the highest level of accruals, have the worst level of cash flows, but not the worst level of earnings. This relationship is of economic importance given that investors are very oriented towards firms yielding high earnings and might fail to realize that earnings are not always accompanied by strong levels of cash flows. Results are disaggregated by years and countries, and compared to previous results for U.S. firms.

Keywords: Finance, Earnings and Cash, Financial Accounting, Latin American Public Firms

JEL Classification: G3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Trejo-Pech, Carlos Omar and Noguera, Magdy and Samaniego, Angel and Weldon, Richard N., The Relationship between Accruals, Earnings, and Cash Flows: Evidence from Latin America (January 4, 2012). Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 95-107, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1947075
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Ali , X Chen , T Yao , T Yu
Do Mutual Funds Profit from the Accruals Anomaly?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2008
Crossref
K Chan , L Chan , N Jegadeesh , J Lakonishok
Earnings Quality and Stock Returns
Journal of Business , volume 79 , p. 1041 - 1082 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P Dechow
Accounting Earning and Cash Flows as Measures of Firm Performance. The Role of Accounting Accruals
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 18 , p. 3 - 42 Posted: 1994
R Freeman , J Ohlson , S Penman
Book-rate-of-return and Prediction of Earnings Changes: An Empirical Investigation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 639 - 653 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
395
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,816
RANK
171,101
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies