Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Agency Costs and Internationalization: The Effect of Revised Accounting Standards in Taiwan

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, Vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 101-111, 2012

11 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2012

Yi-Chein Chiang

Feng Chia University

Hsin-Chiu Huang

Feng Chia University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This study investigates whether the equity agency problems of firms with foreign operations mitigate after 2005, when the revised accounting standards on consolidated financial statements were implemented in Taiwan. A sample of listed Taiwanese firms announcing security offerings from 2000 to 2008 were examined. The results weakly support the hypothesis that equity agency cost problems of Taiwanese multinational corporations improved after 2005. Thus, we suggest that the Taiwanese government further increase information transparency of multinational corporations in order to be consistent with International Accounting Standards and achieve lower equity agency costs.

Keywords: agency costs, consolidated financial statements, internationalization, information

JEL Classification: F23, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chiang, Yi-Chein and Huang, Hsin-Chiu, Equity Agency Costs and Internationalization: The Effect of Revised Accounting Standards in Taiwan (2012). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, Vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 101-111, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1949267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
C Abad , J Laffarga , A Garcia-Borbolla , M Larran , J M Pinero , N Garrod
An Evaluation of the Value Relevance of Consolidated versus Unconsolidated Accounting Information
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 11 , p. 156 - 177 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Aggarwal , N A Kyaw
International Variations in Transparency and Capital Structure: Evidence from European Firms
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 20 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Firm Performance and Mechanisms to Control Agency Problems between Managers and Shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Agrawal , G M Mandelker
Large Shareholders and the Monitoring of Managers: The Case of Anti-takeover Charter Amendments
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 161 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,678
RANK
518,107
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies