Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Recognition and Measurement of Liabilities in IFRS

45 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2011

Richard Barker

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Anne McGeachin

University of Aberdeen - Business School

Date Written: October 31, 2011

Abstract

An important application for financial accounting theory is in accounting standards, for which clarity of conceptual foundation can be viewed as essential in addressing the practical complexities of determining financial position and financial performance. Viewed from this perspective, the recognition and measurement of liabilities in IFRS is inadequately theorised: there is an absence of coherent and consistently-applied theory in both the conceptual framework for financial reporting and in accounting standards themselves. Moreover, this absence does not result simply from a failure to apply theory that is well-established in the literature. Instead, potentially relevant contributions from the literature are few in number, largely disconnected from one another, and at best only indirectly focused on the challenge at hand. In this paper, we focus on measurement theory, which has come to play an increasingly important role in IFRS, but to an extent that we argue takes it beyond the boundaries of practical applicability. In contrast, yet for related reasons, a theory of conservatism has been downplayed in IFRS, in spite of its relevance as a complement to measurement theory under conditions of uncertainty. Our analysis has implications both for accounting theory with respect to recognition and measurement and for the application of that theory in accounting standards.

Keywords: Liabilities, Recognition, Measurement, Conservatism, Conceptual Framework, IFRS

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Barker, Richard and McGeachin, Anne, The Recognition and Measurement of Liabilities in IFRS (October 31, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1952739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1952739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Barker
Reporting Financial Performance. Accounting Horizons , volume 18 , p. 157 - 172 Posted: 2004
M Barth
Including Estimates of the Future in Today's Financial Statements, Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , p. 271 - 285 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
977
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,813
RANK
54,165
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

‘Deprival Value’ vs ‘Fair Value’ Measurement for Contract Liabilities: How to Resolve the ‘Revenue Recognition’ Conundrum?

By Joanne Horton, Richard H. Macve, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies