Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Fair Value Accounting for Investment In Securities: Evidences from the Chinese Stock Exchanged Market

iBusiness, Vol. 2, pp. 409-414, 2010

6 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2011

Li Jing

Gyeongsang National University - College of Business Administration, Department of Accounting

Sang-Kyu Park

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 3, 2011

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the relevance of fair value accounting measurement for investment in securities. We use three measurements for fair value: net asset based on fair value per share (FV), fair value adjusted amount per share (FVAD) and fair value adjusted investment gain and loss in earnings per share (HOLDG). Our sample is composed of Chinese listed companies from period 2006 to the end of 2008. The empirical result shows that first, there is the relevance between stock price and fair value measured information. Second, the explanation power of fair value measures for stock price fluctuation in the listed companies, Third, There are distinct relativity between volatility of return of stock and fair value measured information.

Keywords: fair value accounting, investment securities, role relevance

Suggested Citation:

Jing, Li and Park, Sang-Kyu, The Role of Fair Value Accounting for Investment In Securities: Evidences from the Chinese Stock Exchanged Market (November 3, 2011). iBusiness, Vol. 2, pp. 409-414, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1953627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
R Ball , P Brown
Portfolio Theory and Accounting
Jounrnal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
I Haw , K Park , D Qi , W Wu
Audit Qualification and Timing of Earnings Announcements: Evidence from China
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Chen
Is Accounting Information Value-Relevant in the Emerging Chinese Stock Market?
Journal of International Accounting Auditing and Taxation , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 157 - 175 Posted: 2001
Crossref
E M Barth
International Accounting Differences and Their Relation to Share Prices: Evidence from U.K, Australian, and Canadian Firms
Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 171 - 176 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,457
RANK
110,264
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does Recognition Versus Disclosure Matter? Evidence from Value-Relevance of Banks' Recognized and Disclosed Derivative Financial Instruments

By Anwer S. Ahmed, Emre Kilic, ...

Recognition and Disclosure Reliability: Evidence from SFAS No. 106

By Paquita Y. Davis-friday, Chao-shin Liu, ...

Efficient Contracting and the Choice of Accounting Method in the Oil and Gas Industry

By David Malmquist

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies