Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance Effects of IFRS Adoption: The Case of The People’s Republic of China

Korea International Accounting Review, Vol. 38, pp. 215-218, 2011

20 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2011

Li Jing

Gyeongsang National University - College of Business Administration, Department of Accounting

Sang-Kyu Park

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 3, 2011

Abstract

We examine the value relevance of accounting information before and after IFRS adoption in the Chinese accounting standards started at 2006 for China capital market, and investigate whether the IFRS adoption affects the financial statements and their value relevance for 3,910 firm years of listed firms on SHSE during the period of 2002-2008.

The results are summarized as follows. First, the explanatory power of Ohlson(1995) model increases continuously from 2002 to 2008, and the coefficient of BVE decreases gradually, but the coefficient of E increases after IFRS adoption. Second, the value relevance of accounting information is significantly different between before and after IFRS adoption. Before IFRS adoption, the explanatory power of Ohlson (1995) model is relatively low (adj. R2= 0.264), but relatively high (adj. R2= 0.476) after IFRS adoption. Also, book value of equity plays an influential role before IFRS adoption, but earning has an important effect on stock price after IFRS adoption. Third, the value relevance of accounting information is different by firm’s tradable ratio position. Book value price relationship is high if a firm’s tradable ratio is low, and earning price association is high if a firm’s tradable ratio is high. Finally, the value relevance of accounting information by firm’s tradable ratio is different before IFRS adoption, but not after IFRS adoption.

Keywords: IFRS adoption, value relevance, tradable ratio

Suggested Citation:

Jing, Li and Park, Sang-Kyu, The Value Relevance Effects of IFRS Adoption: The Case of The People’s Republic of China (November 3, 2011). Korea International Accounting Review, Vol. 38, pp. 215-218, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1953609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R Abdel-Khalik , K A Wong , A Wu
The Information Environment of China's A and B-Shares: Can We Make Sense of The Numbers?
International Journal of Accounting , volume 34 , p. 467 - 489 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B H Bao , L Chow
The Usefulness of Earnings and Book Value for Equity Valuation in Emerging Capital Markets: Evidence from Listed Companies in the People's Republic of China
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 10 , p. 85 - 100 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C A Baker , W B Moore
Chinese Accounting: The New Revolution
The Journal of 21st Century Accounting , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2008
E Bartov , S R Goldberg , M Kim
Comparative Value Relevance among German, US and International Accounting Standards: A German Stock Market Perspective
Journal of Accounting Auditing & Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
431
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,168
RANK
154,771
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies