Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountant and User Perceptions of Fair Value Accounting: Evidence from Fiji

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 93-102, 2012

10 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2012

Rajni Devi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joycelyn Devi

The University of the South Pacific

Rashika Kumar

University of the South Pacific

Charlotte Taylor

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This paper through use of proxies for users and preparers of financial reports, finds the definition and understanding of ‘fair value accounting’, and identifies how it is measured (for shares and property investments) in Fiji. The paper also studies benefits and limitations of the concept, examines its impact on financial reporting roles, determines appropriate alternatives of this method and forecasts its prominence and endurance in Fiji. The paper concludes that users and preparers of financial reports have similar understanding of fair value accounting. Some measurement techniques identified were the use of active markets, independent valuers and referrals to cost. Some benefits identified were better disclosure and information that is more relevant. Proxies also identified limitations of the method in terms of costs of valuation, training and hiring of professionals, and the application of subjective judgment. The proxies predict prominence of fair value accounting in the long run.

Keywords: Fair value accounting, measurement techniques, valuation method

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Devi, Rajni and Devi, Joycelyn and Kumar, Rashika and Taylor, Charlotte, Accountant and User Perceptions of Fair Value Accounting: Evidence from Fiji (2012). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 93-102, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1957299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M Barth
Fair Value Accounting: Evidence from Investment Securities and the Market Valuation of Banks
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994
C Botosan , L Koonce , S Ryan , M Stone , J Wahlen
Accounting for Liabilities: Conceptual Issues, Standard Setting, and Evidence from Academic Research
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 159 - 186 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Chisnall
Fair value accounting-an industry view
Balance Sheet , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 33 Posted: 2001
Crossref
E Edwards
The State of Current Value Accounting
The Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 235 - 245 Posted: 1975
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,323
RANK
135,530
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies