Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hedging, Hedge Accounting and Speculation: Evidence from Canadian Oil and Gas Companies

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 3, p. 49-62, 2012

14 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2011

Rikard E. Smistad

Mount Royal University - Bissett School of Business

Igor Pustylnick

Far Eastern Federal University; Conestoga College

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Using archival data, this paper presents the results of analyzing a sample of twelve primarily oil and gas, western Canadian energy firms and their use of financial derivatives to manage commodity price risk. The firms range in size from small to large based on total assets. All twelve companies document and disclose their risk strategies and derivative products they use to manage risk. Regardless of size, all companies make use of common commodity price risk strategies using derivatives. The large energy companies are more likely to utilize hedge accounting than are their small and mid-sized peers. All companies, except for the largest ones, claim they do not use derivatives to speculate. However, by clarifying the definition of speculation, all of the energy firms attempt derivative speculation to a different extent.

Keywords: Hedging, hedge accounting, speculation

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Smistad, Rikard E. and Pustylnick, Igor, Hedging, Hedge Accounting and Speculation: Evidence from Canadian Oil and Gas Companies (2012). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 3, p. 49-62, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1957263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
AcG-13, Hedging Relationships
Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2003-12
H Berkman , M Bradbury
Empirical evidence on the corporate use of derivatives
Financial Management , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 5 - 13 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Birchcliff Energy Ltd. -Audited annual financial statementsEnglish
Birchcliff Energy Ltd Posted: 2010-03-30
Bonavista Energy Trust -Audited annual financial statements -English
Bonavista Energy Trust , p. 7 - 8 Posted: 2010-03-29
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
790
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,162
RANK
72,280
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies