Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary, Self-Regulatory and Mandatory Disclosure of Oil and Gas Company Payments to Foreign Governments

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2011 Last revised: 23 Oct 2019

Paul M. Healy

Harvard Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: July 1, 2015

Abstract

Concerns about high rates of government corruption in resource rich countries have led transparency advocates to urge oil and gas firms to disclose payments to host governments for natural resources. Transparency, they argue, can increase government accountability and mitigate corruption. However, we find a low frequency of voluntary disclosures of payments by oil and gas firms, and negative stock price reactions for affected firms at the announcement of regulations mandating disclosure. This suggests that sample firm managers and their investors perceive that such disclosures generate private costs, despite any public benefits. We document that industry self-regulation has generated information to substitute for the gap in voluntary company disclosure and that such disclosures are accompanied by lower country corruption ratings. This suggests that collective action could be an effective way for companies to manage the private costs of disclosure and respond to public pressure for transparency that could provide public benefits.

Keywords: oil and gas, transparency, disclosure, corruption, competition, self regulation, regulation

JEL Classification: M14, M21, M40

Suggested Citation:

Healy, Paul M. and Serafeim, George, Voluntary, Self-Regulatory and Mandatory Disclosure of Oil and Gas Company Payments to Foreign Governments (July 1, 2015). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1961404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1961404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R M Bushman , J D Piotroski , A J Smith
What determines corporate transparency
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 252 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Darby
The Case for Company-by-Company Reporting of Data in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Posted: 2009
J Eaton , M Gersovitz
Country risk: economic aspects
Managing International Risk , p. 75 - 108 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
11 Citations
Susana Gago-Rodríguez , Gilberto Márquez-Illescas , Manuel Núñez-Nickel
Denial of Corruption: Voluntary Disclosure of Bribery Information
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 162 , issue 3 , p. 609 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Aliya Tskhay
Global Norm Compliance
, p. 193 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Thomas Rauter
The Effect of Mandatory Extraction Payment Disclosures on Corporate Payment and Investment Policies Abroad
77 Pages · Posted: 10 Oct 2017 · Last revised: 21 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 1,169
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ionela Andreicovici , Katharina Hombach , Thorsten Sellhorn
Firm Value Effects of Targeted Disclosure Regulation: The Role of Reputational Costs
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 18 · 60 Pages · Posted: 18 Jul 2018 · Last revised: 1 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 868
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
740
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,562
RANK
78,826
11 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies