Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bilanzielle Kapitalerhaltung vs. Solvenztest Überlegungen zur Unternehmenserhaltung in der Internationalen Rechnungslegung (Balance Sheet Capital Preservation vs. Solvency Test Considerations for Companies in Maintaining the International Accounting)

Capital Maintenance on International Account Principles, Forthcoming

167 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2011

Alexander Mayer

Fachhochschulstudiengänge Burgenland

Date Written: June 15, 2010

Abstract

Capital Maintenance contains various approaches in trying to protect the equity and assets of a company. One of the biggest and substantial threats for companies are paper profits and the recognition of unrealized revenues. The predominant issue of paper profit has been a challenge for research in accounting since the beginning of the 20th century. The demand for balancing under IRFS-regulations to determine the Distributive Profit of companies, listed in the EU, has brought up the issue of paper profit once again. The purpose of this thesis is to examine the predominant issue of paper profits, analyzing concepts, which will allow companies to avoid unrealized revenues to be recognized as distributive profit. Furthermore a theoretical framework for a capital maintenance profit distribution within IRFS and European Accounting regulations is established.

In the theoretical part of this thesis the predominant issue of paper profit is analyzed by the examination of theoretical concepts on capital maintenance and the determination of profit. The concepts are presented as subject of a critical assessment to help comprehend the qualifications needed in avoiding unrealized revenues to be recognized as distrib-utive profit. The empirical part of this thesis focuses on the study of the EU-Commission on capital maintenance and alternative concepts of profit distribution. The results and insights from the study are combined by applying a structured content analysis. The results are interpreted to deduce a possible capital maintaining framework for IFRS avoiding un-realized revenues to be distributed.

In conclusion, it was found that capital maintenance and determination of profit is in accordance with the concept of nominal capital. The legal implementation is made by certain accounting and valuation regulations and statutory dividend restrictions. The current concept of capital maintenance proved to protected only partially against the distribution of unrealized profits. As a possible framework for capital maintaining IFRS profit distribution, the implantation of a dividend lock is proposed. The dividend lock is a sub income account within the profit and loss statement. It separates realized revenues from unrealized revenues. Furthermore a solvency test for companies would hold the management of a company legally responsible for the distributed amount of profit. The solvency test would strengthen the creditor protection and cause a rather cautious distribution of profit. The recommended framework would be in accordance with current EU law and could be implemented in a rather-simple-manner.

Note: Downloadable document is in German.

Keywords: capital maintenance, IFRS, UGB, European Law, Master-Thesis, International Accounting, national-gaap, Austria

Suggested Citation:

Mayer, Alexander, Bilanzielle Kapitalerhaltung vs. Solvenztest Überlegungen zur Unternehmenserhaltung in der Internationalen Rechnungslegung (Balance Sheet Capital Preservation vs. Solvency Test Considerations for Companies in Maintaining the International Accounting) (June 15, 2010). Capital Maintenance on International Account Principles, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1964257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1964257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
134 References
Australien und Neuseeland) vorzuziehen ist. Die eigentlichen Befolgungskosten der EU-und Nicht-EURegelungen sind im Vergleich zu der finanziellen Gesamtsituation der befragten Unternehmen eher marginal
Die Kosten spielen keine entscheidende Rolle bei der Beurteilung, ob ein bestimmtes Kapitalerhaltungssystem im EU-Rahmen demjenigen in Nicht-EU-Ländern
Vgl , Rammert
S. 578f in BFuP Heft 6 Posted: 2004
Vgl , Meyer
Posted: 2008
Vgl , Ekkenga
Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,091
RANK
359,301
134 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Place for Creditor Protection on the Agenda for Modernisation of Company Law in the European Union

By Eilis Ferran

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies