Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Analysis of Risk Management and Risk Disclosure in the Banking Sector - Italian vs. World Practices

The International Journal of Management and Business, Forthcoming

12 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2011 Last revised: 28 Sep 2012

Sabrina Pucci

University of Rome III

Marco Tutino

Roma Tre University - Department of Business Studies

Date Written: June 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper has a double aim, to give a theoretical evaluation of the disclosure model chosen by IASB referring to market risks of financial instruments and to analyze the practical solutions adopted in the case of a sample of listed banks and compliance of the information referring to risk in the “Notes” to the requirements of IFRS 7.

The research, to investigate the effectiveness of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments, has been conducted analyzing the consolidated annual financial statements of a sample of 17 banking companies, all listed in the three-year period (2008-2010) in Italian financial markets. Studying a three-year period should reveal the performance of IFRS 7 in fostering market discipline by pressing banks to disclose more information regarding risk profile elements, mainly considering market risks such as interest rate risk, currency risk and price risk, and then making financial disclosure more transparent. A content analysis has been adopted through a cross-sectional and time series study.

The results underline that IFRS 7 improves the disclosure of market risks in financial statements compared to previous years but a better equilibrium between qualitative and quantitative information could be found. In the sample analyzed, substantial respect of IFRS 7 requirements has been found - apart from some particularly sensitive information - but in some cases quantitative information is not sufficient to show the possible impact of risks on the actual economic results and equity of entities.

Keywords: IFRS 7, Risk Disclosure, Risk Management, ERM, Banks

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Pucci, Sabrina and Tutino, Marco, Comparative Analysis of Risk Management and Risk Disclosure in the Banking Sector - Italian vs. World Practices (June 1, 2012). The International Journal of Management and Business, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1964444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Agusman , G S Monroe , D Gasbarro , J K Zumwalt
Accounting and capital market measure of risk: Evidence from Asian banks during
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 480 - 488 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Risk management roles, responsibilities, organization and arrangements
AIRMIC Posted: 2008-06
R C Anderson , D R Fraser
Corporate control, bank risk taking and health of the banking industry
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 24 , p. 1383 - 1398 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , R Ashok , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries and implications for acceptance of IAS
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,710
RANK
321,490
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies