Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism in Japan: Time Series Analysis of the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings

52 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2011

Kazuyuki Suda

Waseda University

Tomomi Takada

Kobe University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Date Written: October 31, 2011

Abstract

We examine time-series variations in accounting conservatism in the Japanese market. Previous studies have found that the Japanese market has low accounting conservatism. Over the last 30 years, however, the Japanese market has experienced significant institutional changes. Thus, we examine whether accounting conservatism in the Japanese market varied over the period 1979-2007. To quantify accounting conservatism, we use the model developed by Basu (1997), known as “asymmetric timeliness”. Because the market-to-book (MTB) ratio is an alternative measure of accounting conservatism, and Roychowdhury and Watts (2007) find a cause-and-effect relationship between asymmetric timeliness and MTB, we also investigate whether institutional changes affect this relationship.

To assess institutional changes in the Japanese market, we highlight the code law origin and corporate governance, litigation risk, GAAP rules, the boom and bust economic cycle, and ownership structure. These factors are interrelated and mutually influence the asymmetric timeliness of earnings. We divide our sample period into four (1979-1984, 1985-1990, 1991-1999, 2000-2007), based on variations in these factors.

We find that Japanese firms exhibit asymmetric timeliness, regardless of the investigation period, and the fourth period exhibits the highest asymmetric timeliness. Our analysis reveals that GAAP rule amendments around 2000 had considerable effects on this variation in asymmetric timeliness, although it seems unlikely that it was the only factor. Further analysis demonstrates that the boom and bust economic cycle weakened the cause-and-effect relationship between asymmetric timeliness and MTB.

Keywords: Japan, accounting conservatism, asymmetric timeliness, book-to-market

JEL Classification: M41, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Suda, Kazuyuki and Takada, Tomomi, Accounting Conservatism in Japan: Time Series Analysis of the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings (October 31, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1965828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1965828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Aoki , G Jackson , H Miyajima
Corporate governance in Japan Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Melissa Moy , Richard Heaney , Ann Tarca , Warrick van Zyl
Conditional accounting conservatism: Exploring the impact of changes in institutional frameworks in four countries
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 100214 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,233
RANK
226,842
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Single Equation Models eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies