Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandatory IFRS Adoption Affect Crash Risk?

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2011 Last revised: 5 Jan 2015

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Siqi Li

Santa Clara University

Yinghua Li

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 1, 2011

Abstract

We examine the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on firm-level “crash risk,” defined as the frequency of extreme negative stock returns. An important feature of our study is that we separately analyze industrial firms and firms in finance-related industries. This is important because IFRS adoption is likely to affect industrial firms through different mechanisms than financial firms, and as a result may affect crash risk differently. We find that for companies in poor information environments, crash risk decreases among industrial firms and increases among financial firms after the IFRS mandate. We also find that crash risk decreases relatively more among industrial firms where IFRS results in more credible changes to local GAAP, and that crash risk increases relatively more among banks with less restrictive regulations. In addition, we find that earnings volatility declines after IFRS adoption for industrial firms but increases for financial firms. Overall, our findings are consistent with mandatory IFRS adoption decreasing crash risk among industrial firms by improving reporting quality, and increasing crash risk among financial firms by inducing greater volatility and affording more opportunities for manipulation.

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Hung, Mingyi and Li, Siqi and Li, Yinghua, Does Mandatory IFRS Adoption Affect Crash Risk? (October 1, 2011). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1966114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1966114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analyst
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,049
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,046
RANK
49,033
19 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies