Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants Influencing the De Facto Comparability of European IFRS Financial Statements

31 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2011

Vicky Cole

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Joël Branson

Vrije Universiteit Brussel VUB

Diane Breesch

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Date Written: December 1, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates whether or not European listed companies make use of the options offered by the IFRS and if so, which determinants influence these choices. In order to do this, the choices of 79 companies from Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK operating in the industries industrial goods and services or technology were manually collected and analyzed. The determinants investigated were: country, industry, company size, capital structure, profitability, stock exchange and auditor. The contribution of the paper is threefold. If the results reveal that options are not used differently, this shows that European IFRS financial statements are de facto comparable. Furthermore, options that are not used can be removed in order to simplify the IFRS. If the results reveal that options are used differently, having insight into the determinants affecting choices made by companies, can also be of interest to the IASB in the further development of her standard setting process. Of the 34 investigated options, 14 are rarely used differently and four of these options could be easily removed. The majority of the 34 options are, however, used differently and thus negatively affect the de facto comparability of European IFRS financial statements. The country is the most important determinant influencing accounting choices. Also, the type of auditor has an important impact on the format of financial statements and the disclosures.

Keywords: IFRS, comparability, options used

Suggested Citation:

Cole, Vicky and Branson, Joël and Breesch, Diane, Determinants Influencing the De Facto Comparability of European IFRS Financial Statements (December 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1967001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1967001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Aledo Martínez , J García-Martínez , F &amp; Marín Diazaraque , J M
Firm-Specific Factors Influencing the Selection of Accounting Options Provided by the IFRS: Empirical Evidence from Spanish Market Posted: 2009
D C Burghstahler , L Hail , C Leuz
The Importance of Reporting Incentives: Earnings Management in European Private and Public Firms
Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 983 - 1016 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Cairns , D Massoudi , R Taplin , A Tarca
IFRS fair value measurement and accounting policy choice in the United Kingdom and Australia
The British Accounting Review , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Cascino , J Gassen
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Accounting Comparability Posted: 2010
Load more
7 Citations
Neirilaine Silva De Almeida , Sirlei Lemes
Escolhas contábeis para o reconhecimento de planos de pensão de benefício definido: uma abordagem das entidades brasileiras
Revista de Gestão e Secretariado (Management and Administrative Professional Review) , volume 14 , issue 10 , p. 16583 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Vedran Capkun , Daniel W. Collins , Thomas Jeanjean
The Effect of IAS/IFRS Adoption on Earnings Management (Smoothing): A Closer Look at Competing Explanations
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol.35, Issue 4, July-August 2016, Pages 352-394., HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2016-1170 · 70 Pages · Posted: 31 May 2011 · Last revised: 20 Sep 2016 · Downloads: 3,248
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Solomon Opare , Muhammad Nurul Houqe , Tony van Zijl
Meta-Analysis of the Impact of Adoption of IFRS on Financial Reporting Comparability, Market Liquidity, and Cost of Capital
2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference · 56 Pages · Posted: 22 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 29 May 2019 · Downloads: 386
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Patricia De Souza Costa , Aline Fernandes Pinto , Felipe Menezes Nunes , Sirlei Lemes
Comparability of accounting choices in the statement of cash flow: Evidence from Brazil
Contaduría y Administración , volume 64 , issue 3 , p. 107 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
615
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,182
RANK
99,991
7 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies