Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Pay Contracts and IFRS Reconciliations

European Accounting Review Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2011 Last revised: 1 Feb 2014

Georgios Voulgaris

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Konstantinos Stathopoulos

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: December 16, 2013

Abstract

We examine whether UK managers exploited the discretion provided in the UK GAAP to IFRS reconciliation process to manage earnings and whether this earnings management is associated with the structure of the managers’ compensation contracts. Using a comprehensive dataset, mainly hand-collected from the firms’ annual reports, we provide evidence that, given the existence of an accounting-related vesting target in their pay schemes, CEOs use UK GAAP to IFRS reconciliations as an earnings management tool. We test our hypotheses under a number of different specifications including a propensity score matching analysis. Our study contributes to the literature on the relation between earnings management and contractual incentives by focusing on a setting surrounding a major structural change in accounting policies.

Keywords: IFRS Reconciliations, CEO pay contracts, Earnings Management, Performance measures, Incentives, Accounting choice

JEL Classification: M41, G34, M21

Suggested Citation:

Voulgaris, Georgios and Stathopoulos, Konstantinos and Walker, Martin, CEO Pay Contracts and IFRS Reconciliations (December 16, 2013). European Accounting Review Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1969453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1969453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
S Aisbitt
Assessing the Effect of the Transition to IFRS on Equity: The Case of the FTSE 100 , volume 3 , p. 117 - 150 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief Executive Officer Equity Incentives and Accounting Irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 71 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Ashiq Ali , D D Lee-Seok , H Trombley , M A
Accruals and Future Stock Returns: Tests of the Naïve Investor Hypothesis
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 81 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V E Athanasakou , N C Strong , M Walker
Earnings management or forecast guidance to meet analyst expectations?
Accounting and Business Research , volume 39 , p. 3 - 35 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,996
RANK
340,955
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies