Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption on the Accounting Quality of Listed Companies in Kenya

43 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2011 Last revised: 14 Dec 2014

Erick Rading Outa

Charles Darwin University

Date Written: September 30, 2011

Abstract

This study seeks to establish if the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Kenya has been associated with higher accounting quality for listed companies based on the theory that IFRS adoption has benefits such as transparency, accounting quality and reduced cost of capital. By applying quantitative techniques and responding to suggestions on country specific studies, accounting quality measures of earnings management, timely loss recognition and value relevance were analyzed. There was increased variability in earnings in the post adoption period as analyzed by Levenes test for variances with f and p values of 0.000 (<.05). While the variability of change in earnings to variability of change in cash flows showed insignificant decline, analysis based on rank sum tests indicated u=0.0 and p=0.317 implying insignificant difference between the pre and post cash flow and earnings ratio variance. The Spearman correlation between cash flow and accruals as analyzed by Cramer’s test reported a p =.157, that is p>5. The rest of the measures showed insignificant variations. Previous research examined the effects of IFRS adoption mainly in the EU on the impact of IFRS adoption using quantitative techniques with literature citing gaps and conflicting conclusions on accounting quality changes. In contrast, the current research in a common law developing country has shown that IFRS insignificantly improves accounting quality under different circumstances which can be generalized in developing countries. This contribution matters as it implies more debates and better methods to be researched on while adopters to be assured that insignificant improvements appear to be related to compliance and adoption strategies most of which are continuously addressed by the Standard setters and regulators.

Keywords: IFRS, IAS, accounting quality, earnings management, timely loss recognition , Value Relevance

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G30, K22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Outa, Erick Rading, The Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption on the Accounting Quality of Listed Companies in Kenya (September 30, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1976146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1976146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Acca
Corporate Reporting P2 International Posted: 2008
Berkshire
Accountant
ICPAK Celebrating 30 years of Accounting Excellence
Journal of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya , p. 32 - 36 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards and Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Erick R. Outa
Economics and Political Implications of International Financial Reporting Standards
, p. 47 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Adel Sobhi Al-Basha , Fatima Muhsen Abdul Amir
Digital Transformation in Achieving Sustainable Development of Management, Economic, and Applied Sciences
, volume 2614 , p. 175 Posted: 2026
Crossref
In Tae Hwang , Kang Sung Hur , Sun Min Kang
Does the IFRS Effect Continue? An International Comparison
Sustainability , volume 10 , issue 12 , p. 4818 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Ali Murtadha Shaheen
The Impact of International Financial Reporting and its Role in Improving the Economic Development of Public Companies: An Analytical Study
Journal of Law and Sustainable Development , volume 11 , issue 6 , p. e1224 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,622
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,315
RANK
12,011
7 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies