Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading Restrictions and Insiders’ Supply of Information: Evidence from Earnings Smoothing

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 35, No. 2, 2018

55 Pages Posted: 25 Dec 2011 Last revised: 16 Oct 2020

Ivy Zhang

University of California, Riverside

Yong Zhang

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: February 28, 2018

Abstract

We exploit the setting of first-time enforcement of insider trading laws to investigate the relationship between insider trading opportunities and insiders’ supply of information. Insider trading opportunities motivate insiders to reduce their supply of information by concealing firm performance, thereby increasing their information advantage over outsiders, resulting in higher insider trading profits. Using data from 40 countries over the 1988–2004 period, we find that reporting opacity, as captured by earnings smoothness, decreases significantly after the initial enforcement of insider trading laws in countries with strong legal institutions. The decrease in earnings smoothness is positively related to the strictness of insider trading laws. The decrease in earnings smoothness is also more pronounced for countries that have more persistent insider trading law enforcement and for countries that impose more severe penalties on insider trading cases. Further analyses show that the decrease in earnings smoothness following insider trading enforcement is concentrated among firms that are not closely held and among high-growth firms. In addition to uncovering a channel through which insider trading restrictions affect the information environment, our evidence highlights the importance of country- and firm-level governance structures in determining the consequences of insider trading restrictions.

Keywords: Insider Trading, Informational Efficiency, Reporting Quality, Legal Infrastructure

JEL Classification: G14, G18, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Ivy and Zhang, Yong, Insider Trading Restrictions and Insiders’ Supply of Information: Evidence from Earnings Smoothing (February 28, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 35, No. 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1976555 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1976555
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Anup Agrawal , Tommy Cooper
Insider Trading Before Accounting Scandals
Forthcoming, Journal of Corporate Finance, 2015 Pages: 57 Posted: 16 Apr 2008 Last revised: 2 Sep 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Ausubel
Insider trading in a rational expectations economy
American Economic Review , volume 80 , issue 5 , p. 1022 - 1041 Posted: 1990
Q Cheng , T Warfield
Equity incentives and earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 2 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,115
RANK
153,575
7 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies