Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe

Forthcoming Journal of Business Finance & Accounting

44 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2012 Last revised: 6 Dec 2014

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Date Written: December 5, 2014

Abstract

We study the effect of mandatory IFRS adoption in Europe in 2005 on conditional conservatism. We capture conditional conservatism with a modified version of the Khan and Watts (2009) measure (C_Score) that also controls for potential shifts in unconditional conservatism and cost of capital. From a sample of 13,711 firm-year observations drawn from 16 European countries spanning the 2000-2010 period, we document an overall decline in the degree of conditional conservatism after the adoption of IFRS. We show that the decline in conditional conservatism is less pronounced for countries with high quality audit environments and strong enforcement of compliance with accounting standards using the Brown et al. (2014) index. As asset impairment tests are a key mechanism ensuring conditional conservatism in the IFRS framework, we further examine these. We show that firms booking an asset impairment present a smaller decline in the degree of conditional conservatism relative to firms that do not. We also demonstrate that firms that do not book an asset impairment when evidence suggests the probable need to do so experience a more pronounced reduction in conditional conservatism. We argue that IFRS are conceptually conditionally conservative but that inappropriate application of conditional conservatism principles is likely to prevent financial reporting from reaching the level of conservatism targeted by the IASB.

Keywords: Conditional Conservatism, IFRS, Europe, Enforcement, Governance, Intangibles, Impairment

JEL Classification: M4, F02, F30, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Andre, Paul and Filip, Andrei and Paugam, Luc, Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe (December 5, 2014). Forthcoming Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1979748 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1979748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H Amiraslani , G E Latridis , P Pope
Accounting for asset impairment: A test for IFRS compliance across Europe ', A research report by the centre for Financial Analysis and Reporting Research , volume 68 Posted: 2013
R Ball , S P Kothari , V V Nikolaev
On estimating conditional conservatism
Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 755 - 787 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,890
RANK
42,538
9 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies