Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cross-Country Comparability of IFRS Earnings and Book Values: Evidence from France and Germany

Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2012

Qing Liao

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Hollis Ashbaugh Skaife

Graduate School of Management, UC-Davis

Date Written: September 1, 2011

Abstract

Beginning in 2005, the EU began requiring consolidated financial reports of publicly traded firms to be prepared in accordance with EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in an effort to increase the comparability of financial information across EU Member States. While some expect IFRS reporting to increase the comparability of financial information across the EU, others argue that comparability is unlikely because IFRS implementation will vary conditional on national institutions and culture. We investigate the cross-country comparability of IFRS earnings and book values of French and German firms because these two EU states have well-developed equity markets and use the same currency while having social-economic and cultural differences that can affect managers’ IFRS implementation choices. Our results indicate that French and German IFRS earnings and book values are comparable in the year subsequent to IFRS adoption, but become less comparable in the years that follow. We document differences in accounting estimates, recognition of special items, and other equity reserves between French and German firms, which help explain the decrease in comparability over time. Our study adds to the growing literature on the financial statement effects of mandatory IFRS reporting and points to possible reasons for a sustained lack of cross-country comparability of financial information under a common accounting regime.

Keywords: international financial reporting, IFRS, comparability, valuation usefulness

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G38, K22, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Qing and Sellhorn, Thorsten and Skaife, Hollis Ashbaugh, The Cross-Country Comparability of IFRS Earnings and Book Values: Evidence from France and Germany (September 1, 2011). Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1979341
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
S Aisbitt
Compliance with narrative disclosure requirements in inaugural IAS financial statements
EIASM Workshop on Implementing IFRS. Brussels Posted: 2003-09-11
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Studies on International Accounting , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
J J Angel
Tick Size, Share Prices, and Stock Splits
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 655 - 681 Posted: 1997
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standard choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Georgios Georgakopoulos , Dimitrios Gounopoulos , Chen Huang , Victoria Patsika
The impact of IFRS adoption on IPO management earnings forecasts in Australia
Forthcoming: International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation · 51 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2013 · Last revised: 21 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 722
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Medhat Endrawes , Zhuoan Feng , Meiting Lu , Yaowen Shan
Audit Committee Characteristics and Financial Statement Comparability
Accounting & Finance, Vol. 60, Issue 3, pp. 2361-2395, 2020 · 35 Pages · Posted: 6 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 7
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jenelle Conaway
Has Global Financial Reporting Comparability Improved?
55 Pages · Posted: 11 Oct 2021 · Last revised: 31 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 64
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Diana Choi , Sehwa Kim , Xue Wang
The Financial-Reporting Effects of ASC 606 Adoptions: Evidence from an Industry-Focused Approach
63 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2022 · Last revised: 4 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 869
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
665
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,530
RANK
90,429
9 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies