Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploration Intensity, Analysts’ Private Information Development and Their Forecast Performance

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2012 Last revised: 27 Mar 2016

Xiaomeng Chen

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics

Sue Wright

UTS Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Hai Wu

Australian National University (ANU) - College of Business and Economics

Date Written: January 28, 2016

Abstract

This study examines whether analysts in the extractive industries in Australia adjust their private information searching and processing in response to the complexity of information about a firm’s exploration and evaluation (E&E) activities. We find that both the proportion of private information in their forecasts and the accuracy of their forecasts increase with the intensity of E&E activities. Additional analyses reveal that this effect is more pronounced for firms with substantial E&E activities but limited production activities, and that analysts’ private information development activities are mainly related to the capitalized E&E expenditures. Our results provide guidance for both investors and future standard setters. They show that investors can benefit from analysts’ expertise in situations of high information asymmetry. They also provide evidence of the advantage of distinguishing successful from unsuccessful investments in resource exploration when accounting for E&E expenditures, which may inform future decisions about accounting for intangible assets.

Keywords: Analysts; Intangible assets; Exploration and evaluation expenditures; Extractive industries

JEL Classification: G14, G24, L72, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xiaomeng and Wright, Sue and Wu, Hai, Exploration Intensity, Analysts’ Private Information Development and Their Forecast Performance (January 28, 2016). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1980515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1980515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
S Abhayawansa , M Aleksanyan , J Bahtsevanoglou
The use of intellectual capital information by sell-side analysts in company valuation
Accounting and Business Research , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 279 - 306 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 161 - 91 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Australian Accounting Standard Board (AASB) (1989) AASB 1022: Accounting for the extractive industries
Crossref
AASB 6: Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources
Australian Accounting Standard Board (AASB) Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,366
RANK
568,179
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Are Mining Exploration Stocks More Prone to Informed Trading than Mining Production Stocks?

By Russell Poskitt

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies