Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Additional Guidance Provided on International Financial Reporting Standards and its Impact on the Judgments and Confidence of Accountants

55 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2012

Rajni Mala

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Parmod Chand

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: January, 11 2012

Abstract

Using an experiment, this study extends prior research on accounting judgment and decision-making by examining the impact of additional guidance provided on International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) (in addition to what is contained in the relevant IFRS) as a decision aid on the accuracy of judgments and the confidence the accountants have on their judgments. Unlike earlier studies, this study also examines the interactive effects of task complexity and additional guidance on the judgments of accountants. The results provide evidence that those accountants who are provided with decision aids in the form of additional guidance on IFRS make more accurate judgments than those accountants who are not provided with any additional guidance on IFRS. Additionally, the results show that the use of decision aids in the form of additional guidance on the accounting standards increases the confidence accountants have on their judgments. The results provide evidence of the importance of the additional guidance on the principles-based IFRS in addition to what is currently being provided in IFRS and by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). Additionally, the results of this study are of importance to the preparers of financial reports as it shows that the confidence on the judgments and decisions made can be increased by using decision aids in the form of additional guidance on IFRS when undertaking complex accounting tasks. This also suggests that accountants should exploit any guidance which is currently provided in IFRS and by the IFRIC.

Keywords: Decision aids, accounting standards, additional guidance, complex task, judgments

JEL Classification: M410, M480

Suggested Citation:

Mala, Rajni and Chand, Parmod, Additional Guidance Provided on International Financial Reporting Standards and its Impact on the Judgments and Confidence of Accountants (January, 11 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1983199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1983199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
134 References
M J Abdolmohammadi
Decision Support and Expert Systems in Auditing: A Review and Research Directions
Accounting and Business Research , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 173 - 185 Posted: 1987
Crossref
M J Abdolmohammadi , A Wright
An Examination of the Effects of Experience and Task Complexity on Audit Judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1987
R J Aldag , D J Power
An Empirical Assessment of Computer-Assisted Decision Analysis. Decision Sciences , volume 17 , p. 572 - 588 Posted: 1986
Crossref
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-Based Versus RulesBased Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,981
RANK
293,720
134 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Behavioral Evidence on the Effects of Principles- and Rules-Based Standards

By Mark W. Nelson

Earnings Quality Under Rules- vs. Principles-Based Accounting Standards: A Test of the Skinner Hypothesis

By Erin Webster and Daniel B. Thornton

Principles-Based Versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions

By Christopher P. Agoglia, Timothy Doupnik, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies