Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Relationship of Working Capital and Profitability: A Study of Select Multinational Companies in the Indian Pharmaceutical Sector

The IUP Journal of Management Research, Vol. X, No. 2, pp. 7-22, April 2011

Posted: 13 Jan 2012

Debasish Sur

The University of Burdwan

Kaushik Chakraborty

Netaji Mahavidyalaya; Netaji Mahavidyalaya

Date Written: January 12, 2012

Abstract

In the present environment of cut-throat competition, almost all the business firms have no other option but cutting the cost of operations in order to be competitive as well as financially healthy. So, like other aspects of financial management, working capital management must have a significant role in reaching this target. However, a great deal of controversy exists over the issue whether the working capital of a firm, as determined by its financing and investment decisions, affects its profitability or not. The present study seeks to reexamine the interrelationship between working capital management and profitability of ten select multinational companies in the Indian pharmaceutical industry during the period 1996-97 to 2007-08. The selection of the companies has been made using purposive sampling procedure. Relevant statistical techniques and tests have been applied in carrying out the analysis. Although the study has failed to provide final solution to this highly controversial issue, a significant outcome has been derived from it.

Suggested Citation:

Sur, Debasish and Chakraborty, Kaushik, Evaluating Relationship of Working Capital and Profitability: A Study of Select Multinational Companies in the Indian Pharmaceutical Sector (January 12, 2012). The IUP Journal of Management Research, Vol. X, No. 2, pp. 7-22, April 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1983718
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies