Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Investors' Abilities to Assimilate International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Earnings Announcements Data

CAAA Annual Conference 2012

54 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2012

Kingsley O. Olibe

Kansas State University

Date Written: January 13, 2012

Abstract

[Abstract: To improve comparability of financial statements across countries, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) are involved in the convergence process for a single, high quality accounting standards. This paper examines the market’s reaction (price and volume) to IFRS-based earnings announcements of UK listed firms in the US equity markets and assess if US and IFRS accounting principles differences impair the ability of US investors to assess the information contained in IFRS accounting system output. Specifically, this paper tests whether US investors are able to interpret and use IFRS accounting reports in making trading and investment decisions. How US market participants react to IFRS earnings disclosures is important to regulators (e.g., the SEC and the FASB) in their task in improving comparability of financial reporting. This study may contribute to the debate on global convergence with IFRS, particularly convergence between IFRS and US GAAP with respect to earnings measurement. The results provide evidence that unexpected returns and volume of shares traded increased during IFRS-based earnings release dates. The price analyses indicate that US investors use information about UK’s firms IFRS earnings in valuation, and that the US market responses to IFRS earnings differ somewhat to the US earnings. Thus, US market participants do not appear to be confused by US/IFRS GAAP differences, and in fact use IFRS earnings in their valuation of UK firms.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) earnings announcements, US GAAP Earnings Announcements, Trading and Price responses, Information Content

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Olibe, Kingsley O., Assessing Investors' Abilities to Assimilate International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Earnings Announcements Data (January 13, 2012). CAAA Annual Conference 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1984938 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1984938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
K Schipper
The introduction of International Accounting Standards in EEurope: implications for international convergence
European Accounting Review , volume 14 , p. 101 - 126 Posted: 2005
Crossref
G P Wilson
The incremental information content of the accrual and funds components of earnings after controlling for earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , p. 293 - 322 Posted: 1987-04
P Weetman , S J Gray
A comparative international analysis of the impact of accounting principles on profits: The U.S.A versus the U.K., Sweden and the Netherlands
Accounting and Business Research , volume 21 , p. 363 - 379 Posted: 1991
Crossref
R Verrecchia
Information acquisition in a noisy rational expectations economy
Econometrica , volume 50 , issue 6 , p. 1415 - 1430 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,398
RANK
394,952
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies