Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Standard-Setters' Toolkit: Can Principles Prevail over Bright Lines?

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2012 Last revised: 10 Mar 2017

Darren Henderson

Wilfrid Laurier University

Patricia C. O'Brien

University of Waterloo

Date Written: March 8, 2017

Abstract

We study lease accounting in an international panel data set to examine how accounting outcomes vary with two features of accounting standards: the emphasis on using professional judgement to apply principles and the presence or absence of bright-line tests. We study four countries—Australia, Canada, the UK, and the US—and companies in two lease-intensive industries—retail and transportation. Our primary study period spans the time when Australia and the UK switched from domestic to international accounting standards, and in one test, we also consider Canada’s transition to international standards. We find that neither an explicit requirement to apply a principle nor omitting bright-line tests materially increases the use of capital lease treatment among these firms. Overall, we conclude that this financial reporting outcome is relatively insensitive to these standard-setting tools.

Keywords: principles-based standards, rules-based standards, lease accounting, bright lines, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Henderson, Darren and O'Brien, Patricia C., The Standard-Setters' Toolkit: Can Principles Prevail over Bright Lines? (March 8, 2017). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1986102 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1986102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Martin F. Grace , Sudipta Basu
Insurance: In or Out of the “Too Difficult” Box?
49 Pages · Posted: 8 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 170
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jennifer Lynne M. Altamuro , Lucy Huajing Chen , Yiwen Li
Are U.S. GAAP-based and IFRS-based Accounting Amounts More Comparable after the Revised Lease Standards? Evidence from ASC 842 and IFRS 16
67 Pages · Posted: 2 Mar 2023 · Last revised: 18 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 63
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,291
RANK
281,840
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies