Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legitimacy of Global Accounting Standards: A New Analytical Framework

19 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2012

Masatsugu Sanada

Kyoto Tachibana University

Date Written: January 23, 2012

Abstract

This paper is a conceptual examination of global expansion of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and perceives its expansion as gaining legitimacy in the global financial regulatory field. From this stance, this paper assumes a pragmatic definition of legitimacy, which originally had many definitions that had become ‘motivation for acceptance among multi-stakeholders,’ and sets up a Legitimacy model that constitutionally analyzes legitimacy of global accounting standards. Drawing upon institutional theory, this study intends to provide a new perspective to accounting literature. The Legitimacy model constitutionally analyzes legitimacy of the global accounting regulatory system, which we can assume is a multilayer network, and separates legitimacy of IFRS and IASB, which have not necessarily been separated in previous studies. By employing the concept of reflexivity, this model clarifies the mechanism in which both the legitimacies of accounting standards and of the standard setters interact to convey legitimacy of global accounting standards as a system. The main contributions of this paper are analyzing accounting standards as global standards and/or a global institution and providing a new analytical framework to legitimacy of global accounting standards.

Keywords: Legitimacy, IASB, IFRS, Standardization, Institutionalization

JEL Classification: G18, G38, L50, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sanada, Masatsugu, Legitimacy of Global Accounting Standards: A New Analytical Framework (January 23, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1990796 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1990796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
G Ahrne , N Brunsson
Meta-Organization Posted: 2008
P J Arnold
Institutional Perspectives on the Internationalization of Accounting
Accounting, Organizations, and Institutions , p. 48 - 64 Posted: 2009
Crossref
W F Chua , S L Taylor
The Rise and Rise of IFRS: an Examination of IFRS Diffusion
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 27 , p. 462 - 473 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D L Deephouse , M Suchman
Legitimacy in Organizational Institutionalism
The SAGE Handbook of Organizational Institutionalism , p. 49 - 77 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
564
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,578
RANK
111,747
2 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies