Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Equity in India: The Effects of Local and International Models on Equity Pricing

International Journal of Indian Culture and Business Management, Vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 138-159, 2011

Posted: 24 Jan 2012

Reilly S. White

University of New Mexico - Anderson School of Management

Date Written: January 23, 2012

Abstract

This paper presents the first test of Indian-specific cost of equity measures: the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), global CAPM and an International Arbitrage Pricing Theory (IAPT) model. Using 312 firms weekly and 320 firms monthly derived from the Bombay Stock Exchange 500 Index, the firm tests the cost of equity under the three different models for both general Indian firms and Indian ADRs. This paper confirms the theory proposed by Stulz (1995), demonstrating that cost of equity is cheaper in global markets than in domestic markets. Both local CAPM and global CAPM conformed to theory, but IAPT results were highly irregular. This represents one of the largest and most recent studies of Indian equity capital and cost of equity model calculations to date. Significant differences in betas exist between the models. The results indicate that weekly data for the CAPM and global CAPM produce the most reliable equity calculations for Indian firms.

Keywords: global capital assets, pricing models, CAPMs, ADRs, American depository receipts, USA, United States, international arbitrage, pricing theories, equity costs, international models, local models, Bombay, stock exchanges, global markets, domestic markets, equity capital, beta differences

JEL Classification: F3

Suggested Citation:

White, Reilly S., The Cost of Equity in India: The Effects of Local and International Models on Equity Pricing (January 23, 2012). International Journal of Indian Culture and Business Management, Vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 138-159, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1990611
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies