Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Conservatism in an Emerging Capital Market: Evidence from Iran

11 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2012

Hamid Mohammadi

Yazd University

Masoume Salehirad

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 26, 2012

Abstract

In this paper we investigate whether earnings are conservative in financial reporting of firms listed in Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE)? Using the asymmetric timeliness of earnings, we measure earnings conservatism for 495 firm-years during 2001-2009, we hypothesize that earnings in all periods for sample firms are conservative. Consistent with Basu (1997), we classify the sample firms in two groups: firms with good news and firms with bad news. Our measure of conservatism is the difference between the slope coefficients for bad and good news firms. In some periods, our findings support the existence of conservatism in financial reporting of these firms; however in some periods our measure is negative which means that earnings are not conservative in these periods.

Keywords: earnings conservatism, asymmetric timeliness, stock returns

JEL Classification: G01

Suggested Citation:

Mohammadi, Hamid and Salehirad, Masoume, Earnings Conservatism in an Emerging Capital Market: Evidence from Iran (January 26, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1992665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1992665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Ray Ball , Gil Sadka , Ashok Robin
Is Financial Reporting Shaped by Equity Markets or by Debt Markets? An International Study of Timeliness and Conservatism
Pages: 54 Posted: 8 May 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,914
RANK
459,276
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies