Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Conditional and Unconditional Conservatism Impact Earnings Quality and Stock Prices in Egypt?

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol 2, No. 12, pp. 7-22, 2011

16 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2012

Tariq Hassaneen Ismail

Faculty of Commerce

Rasha Elbolok

Suiz Canal University

Date Written: January, 26 2012

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact of conditional and unconditional conservatism on earnings’ quality and stock prices in Egyptian context and provide further insights on the effects of earnings’ quality on stock prices. This paper follows the asymmetric timeliness of earnings measure of Basu (1997) with further extension to measure the effect of conditional and unconditional on the quality of earnings and stock prices. This study employs cross sectional data analysis and multiple regression using data available for a sample of the largest 30 Egyptian listed firms during the period of 2005 to 2009. The results suggest that (i) conditional conservatism negatively affects both earnings quality and stock prices of Egyptian firms, and (ii) unconditional conservatism does not affect earnings quality but has a negative association with stock prices of Egyptian firms. The findings of this study would help Egyptian accounting standards setters to recommend accounting choices and policies that lead to high quality of earnings and provide financial reports that rationalize investors’ decisions. This study is the first to test the impact of both conditional and unconditional conservatism on earnings’ quality and stock prices in Egyptian setting.

Keywords: Conservatism, conditional conservatism, unconditional conservatism, Earnings’ quality, stock prices, Basu model, listed firms, Egyptian Stock Market, Egypt

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Tariq Hassaneen and Elbolok, Rasha, Do Conditional and Unconditional Conservatism Impact Earnings Quality and Stock Prices in Egypt? (January, 26 2012). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol 2, No. 12, pp. 7-22, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1992606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
O H Abdelsalam , P Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to an emerging capital market: relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 12 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
O H Abdelsalam , P Weetman
Measuring accounting disclosure in a period of complex changes: the case of Egypt
Advances in International Accounting , volume 20 , p. 75 - 104 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Anwer S. Ahmed , Bruce K. Billings , Mary Stanford , Richard M. Morton
Accounting Conservatism and Cost of Debt: An Empirical Test of Efficient Contracting
Pages: 36 Posted: 25 Apr 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ahmed , B Billings , R Morton , M Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,030
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,920
RANK
50,265
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies