Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and the Contractual Usefulness of Accounting Information in Executive Compensation

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2012

Neslihan Ozkan

University of Bristol - School Accounting and Finance, U.K.

Zvi Singer

HEC Montreal

Haifeng You

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 5, 2012

Abstract

We examine how the mandatory adoption of IFRS in Continental Europe affects the contractual usefulness of accounting information in executive compensation, as reflected in pay-performance sensitivity (PPS) and relative performance evaluation (RPE). The empirical evidence indicates a weak increase in accounting-based PPS in the post-adoption period, primarily driven by countries with large differences between IFRS and their previously adopted local accounting standards. We also document a significant increase in accounting-based RPE using foreign peers after the adoption. Additional analysis shows that the increase in RPE is greater for firms with more foreign sales, and for those with lower availability of domestic peers of comparable size. The overall results are consistent with the compensation committees in those countries perceiving earnings after IFRS adoption to be of higher quality and comparability. Our paper highlights an important benefit of IFRS largely ignored by the literature, i.e., the higher earnings quality and comparability brought by the adoption of IFRS facilitate executive compensation contracting.

Keywords: IFRS adoption, pay-performance sensitivity, relative performance evaluation, comparability of financial statements

JEL Classification: D8, J33, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ozkan, Neslihan and Singer, Zvi and You, Haifeng, Mandatory IFRS Adoption and the Contractual Usefulness of Accounting Information in Executive Compensation (February 5, 2012). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1999898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Albuquerque
Peer Firms in Relative Performance Evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Antle , A Smith
An Empirical Investigation of the Relative Performance Evaluation of Corporate Executives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,010
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,342
RANK
51,650
12 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies