Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost-of-Capital Effects of IFRS Reporting in the United States

42 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2012

Kazbi Soonawalla

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Suhas A. Sridharan

Emory University - Goizueta Business School

Date Written: December 1, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates the cost of equity capital effects of the SEC’s decision to eliminate the U.S. GAAP reconciliation requirement for cross-listed companies using IFRS. We use a sample of foreign domiciled firms that are cross-listed in the U.S. to conduct this investigation. We partition our cross-listed sample into three distinct groups: those firms that file using IFRS, those firms that file directly in U.S GAAP, and those that file in their own domestic GAAP with a 20-F reconciliation. For each of these groups we calculate cost of equity capital using a range of traditional measures and examine changes in these measures from 2006 to 2007 – the year that IFRS filers were no longer required to file a 20-F reconciliation. In order to ensure that the changes in the traditional cost of capital measures are not driven by firm fundamentals we control for firm specific factors when calculating an additional residual cost of capital measure. In contrast to prior research, we find evidence of a significant decline in residual cost of equity from 2006 to 2007 for IFRS filers in response to the elimination of U.S. GAAP reconciliations relative to both U.S. and non-U.S. local GAAP filers. Our results suggest that eliminating the reconciliation for IFRS filers does not weaken the information environment relative to U.S. GAAP.

Keywords: cost of capital, IFRS, US GAAP, convergence, harmonisation, 20-F reconciliation

Suggested Citation:

Soonawalla, Kazbi and Sridharan, Suhas A., Cost-of-Capital Effects of IFRS Reporting in the United States (December 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2000113 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2000113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
E Amir , T Harris , E Venuti
A Comparison of the Value-Relevance of U.S. versus Non-U.S. GAAP Accounting Measures Using Form 20-F Reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An Exploratory Study of the Valuation Properties of CrossListed Firms
IAS and U.S. GAAP. The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
T Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Do Earnings Reported Under IFRS Tell Us More About Future Earnings and Cash Flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M E Barth , G Clinch
International accounting differences and their relation to share prices: Evidence from U.K., Australian, and Canadian firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , p. 135 - 170 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Donal Byard , Shamin Mashruwala , Jangwon Suh
Does the 20-F Reconciliation Affect Investors' Perception of Comparability between Foreign Private Issuers (FPIs) and U.S. Firms?
Accounting Horizons , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Stuart Mestelman , Emad Mohammad , Mohamed Shehata
The Convergence of IFRS and U.S. GAAP: Evidence from the SEC's Removal of Form 20‐F Reconciliations
Accounting Perspectives , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 190 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
545
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,946
RANK
116,737
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies