Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Impairment Losses as Managerial Choices

Management discretion and the role of the stock market in goodwill impairment decisions - Evidence from Finland January 2016 International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting 8(2):172-195.

Posted: 7 Feb 2012 Last revised: 8 Nov 2019

Jani Saastamoinen

University of Eastern Finland - Department of Business

Kati Pajunen

University of Eastern Finland

Date Written: April 2, 2012

Abstract

This paper argues that managerial discretion plays an important role in goodwill write-off decisions under IFRS 3. We carry out an empirical analysis on Finnish listed companies between 2005 and 2009. Our evidence suggests that a new CEO is more likely to impair goodwill. We find also that goodwill impairment charges occur when earnings would have been negative, which points in the direction of earnings bath-type of behavior. Furthermore, our results show that financial markets reduce the problems of asymmetric information associated with goodwill accounting.

Keywords: Goodwill, Impairments, IFRS, Fair Value, CEO change

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Saastamoinen, Jani and Pajunen, Kati, Goodwill Impairment Losses as Managerial Choices (April 2, 2012). Management discretion and the role of the stock market in goodwill impairment decisions - Evidence from Finland January 2016 International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting 8(2):172-195., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2000690
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,766
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies