Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting Practices in a Multicultural Environment: Evidence from Austria, Russia and the US

International Journal of Strategic Management, Volume 12, Number 1, pp. 37-49

13 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2012 Last revised: 6 Apr 2012

Ksenia Keplinger

Johannes Kepler University of Linz

Birgit Feldbauer-Durstmüller

Johannes Kepler University Linz

Christine Mitter

Fachhochschule Salzburg (FHS) University of Applied Sciences

Date Written: February 22, 2012

Abstract

Modern companies operate in a constantly changing business environment and are characterized by performing economic activities worldwide. The successful operation of foreign sales offices, plants, branches or subsidiaries requires – amongst other management tools – the implementation of a management accounting system in the host country to ensure that managers receive the information necessary for planning, control and decision-making. It is well known and empirically investigated that management theories developed in one culture cannot be exported easily to other cultures. This is also true for management accounting, which contributes to the achievement of the company’s objectives and thus plays an important role in managing the organization. Since people react to situations and interpret information differently depending on the norms of their native culture, cultural distance affects management accounting practices. Despite the growing attention to research in management accounting in the last years, there is still a significant lack of research concerning the influence of culture on management accounting.

Drawing on interviews with Austrian companies operating in the Russian and US markets, this paper investigates how cultural differences influence the functions of management accounting such as information supply, planning and control. Furthermore, the study aims to provide a better understanding of the needs and particularities of doing business in Russia and the US. Following this, recommendations are developed for companies entering or already serving the Russian or US markets.

The results of the study further show that the overall importance of planning, the access to management accounting information and the willingness to provide data in Russia is significantly lower than in Austria and the US. Moreover, Russian employees are less likely to accept criticism and sanctions when compared to their American and Austrian counterparts. Austrian employees also participate more actively in the planning process and are inclined to develop highly detailed plans, whereas planning in the US and Russia is less detailed. In contrast to Austrian and Russian managers who tend to avoid conflict, Americans prefer to address conflicts directly. Our study demonstrates very clearly that cultural differences have a significant impact on management accounting practices. This implies that companies entering or already serving the Russian or US markets have to consider these differences in order to design an effective management accounting system.

Keywords: Cultural Differences, Management Accounting, Information Supply, Planning, Control, Austria, Russia, US

Suggested Citation:

Keplinger, Ksenia and Feldbauer-Durstmüller, Birgit and Mitter, Christine, Management Accounting Practices in a Multicultural Environment: Evidence from Austria, Russia and the US (February 22, 2012). International Journal of Strategic Management, Volume 12, Number 1, pp. 37-49, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2009635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2009635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Nancy J Adler
International dimensions of organizational behavior Posted: 2002
David M Brock , David Barry , David C Thomas
Your forward is our reverse, your right, our wrong": rethinking multinational planning processes in light of national culture
International Business Review , volume 9 , issue 6 , p. 687 - 701 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Jong - Choe , Langfield-Smith , K
The effects of national culture on the design of management accounting information systems
Journal of Comparative International Management , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 2004
Chee W Chow , Yukata Kato , Kenneth A Merchant
The use of organizational controls and their effects on data manipulation and management myopia: a Japan vs. US comparison
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 21 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 175 - 192 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
884
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,960
RANK
62,172
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Comparative Influence of Culture on Budget Control Practices in the United States and Japan

By Susumu Ueno and Frederick Wu

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies