Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impression Management and Non-GAAP Disclosure in Earnings Announcement

Forthcoming - Journal of Business Finance and Accounting

53 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2012 Last revised: 20 Jan 2017

Encarna Guillamon Saorin

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2017

Abstract

We study the market’s reaction to the disclosure of non-GAAP earnings measures that are combined with high impression management. We construct an impression management score that captures several communication techniques that managers often use to positively bias investors’ perceptions of firm’s performance. We hand-collect and code both quantitative and qualitative information from earnings announcement press releases of large European firms. Our results indicate that non-GAAP measures are informative to capital markets. However, non-GAAP adjustments are more persistent when accompanied by higher levels of impression management. This evidence is consistent with managers attempting to distort users’ perceptions when non-GAAP adjustments are of lower quality. Market reaction tests suggest that investors are able to see through managers’ intentions and discount non-GAAP information that is accompanied by high impression management. Moreover, investors in more sophisticated markets penalize non-GAAP measures communicated with high impression management. Our results are robust to a battery of sensitivity tests, including using a machine-coded tone measure.

Keywords: pro forma, disclosure tone, investor protection, sophisticated markets

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Guillamon Saorin, Encarna and Isidro, Helena and Marques, Ana Cristina, Impression Management and Non-GAAP Disclosure in Earnings Announcement (January 1, 2017). Forthcoming - Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2011889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2011889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 23 , issue 8 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
Crossref
E Abrahamson , C Park
Concealment of negative organizational outcomes: An Agency Theory perspective
Academy of Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 5 , p. 1302 - 1334 Posted: 1994
Crossref
W Aerts , P Cheng
Causal disclosures on earnings and earnings management in an IPO setting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 431 - 459 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K Allee , N Bhattacharya , E Black , T Christensen
Pro Forma Disclosure and Investor Sophistication: External Validation of Experimental Evidence Using Archival Data', Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 201 - 222 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,965
RANK
99,786
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Gaap Versus the Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings

By Mark T Bradshaw, Matthew Moberg, ...

The Predictive Value of Expenses Excluded from 'Pro Forma' Earnings

By Jeffrey T. Doyle, Russell J. Lundholm, ...

Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings

By Neil Bhattacharya, Ervin L. Black, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies