Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of IFRS 9 in the Jordanian Banking Sector: Are Accountants Ready to Adopt by Understanding the Recognition and Measurement

International Journal of Economics and Finance Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 28 Feb 2012

Mohammed Fawzi Alhaija

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 28, 2012

Abstract

This study focuses on assessing the ability of accountants in Jordanian banks to reflecting the requirement of IFRS 9 in financial matters. So we focus on the classification and measurement of financial assets and liability, impairment methodology, hedge accounting, insurance and lease under the standard and how the accountant deal with each of them.

The survey methodology was adopted and questionnaires were drawn to elicit information from financial accountants in Jordanian banks. Forty (40) accountants were sampled. The mean scores of the accountant’s perceptions were analyzed and the test statistics was explored to test the hypotheses.

The study found that the accountant within Jordanian banks have a sufficient overall knowledge regarding IFRS 9 and this mean that Jordanian banks can easily transform financial statement based on IFRS 9 when it start. Our results suggest that Jordanian banks should understand the changes between current IAS 39 and the ED for IFRS 9 by design, deliver tailored presentations and facilitating workshops for accountants also they can prepare in earlier period for transition and evaluate the impact.

Suggested Citation:

Alhaija, Mohammed Fawzi, The Adoption of IFRS 9 in the Jordanian Banking Sector: Are Accountants Ready to Adopt by Understanding the Recognition and Measurement (February 28, 2012). International Journal of Economics and Finance Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2012418
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies