Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Emerging Markets Research: Trends, Issues and Future Directions

Emerging Markets Review, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 159-183, 2012

40 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2012

Colm Kearney

Monash University - Monash Business School

Date Written: March 4, 2012

Abstract

We survey recent research on emerging markets (EM) within the fields of economics, finance, international business and management. To do this, we reconfiguring the Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) classification system to provide a comprehensive list of the topics that have been studied, and we combine it with the main journal ranking methodologies to identify the journals in which significant contributions to EM research have been disseminated. We highlight the areas of greatest interest and those that have received relatively less attention to date. The suggested topics for future research include: Data and methods; market efficiency, risk-adjusted returns and risk premia; exchange rate volatility and firm-level exposures; classification systems, clusters and networks; firm-level internationalization; international business strategy; attracting and benefiting from FDI; corporate and institutional governance; and behavioral perspectives, culture and the demise of the representative agent.

Keywords: emerging markets, transition, finance and growth

JEL Classification: F23, F36, G10, G20, G30, O10

Suggested Citation:

Kearney, Colm, Emerging Markets Research: Trends, Issues and Future Directions (March 4, 2012). Emerging Markets Review, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 159-183, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2015530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
151 References
R Aggarwal , S D Dahiya , L Klapper
ADR holdings of US-based emerging market funds
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 31 , issue 6 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Aggarwal , J W Goodell
Markets versus institutions in developing countries: National attributes as determinants
Emerging Markets Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 66 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Aggarwal , J Berrill , E Hutson , C Kearney
What is a multinational corporation? Classifying the degree of firm-level multinationality
International Business Review , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 557 - 577 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Aggarwal , C Kearney , B Lucey
Gravity and culture in foreign portfolio investment
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 525 - 538 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Jefferson Colombo , Paulo Renato Soares Terra
Interest on Equity versus Dividends: the Role of Shareholder Identity on Corporate Tax Avoidance
41 Pages · Posted: 31 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 62
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shayal Prasad , Peter Zamborsky
Emerging Market Multinationals and Spillovers to Home Country Local Firms
35 Pages · Posted: 5 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 92
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,869
RANK
29,234
2 Citations
151 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Time-Varying World Market Integration

By Geert Bekaert and Campbell R. Harvey

Time-Varying World Market Integration

By Geert Bekaert and Campbell R. Harvey

Foreign Speculators and Emerging Equity Markets

By Geert Bekaert and Campbell R. Harvey

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies