Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Macro to Micro: Country Exposures, Firm Fundamentals and Stock Returns

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2012 Last revised: 24 Apr 2014

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Scott A. Richardson

London Business School; Acadian Asset Management

A. Irem Tuna

London Business School

Date Written: April 24, 2014

Abstract

We outline a systematic approach to incorporate macroeconomic information into firm level forecasting from the perspective of an equity investor. Using a global sample of 198,315 firm-years over the 1998-2010 time period, we find that combining firm level exposures to countries (via geographic segment data) with forecasts of country level performance, is able to generate superior forecasts for firm fundamentals. This result is particularly evident for purely domestic firms. We further find that this forecasting benefit is associated with future excess stock returns. These relations are stronger after periods of higher dispersion in expected country level performance.

Keywords: macroeconomic exposures, earnings, stock returns, geographic segments, Consensus Economics

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Ningzhong and Richardson, Scott Anthony and Tuna, Ayse Irem, Macro to Micro: Country Exposures, Firm Fundamentals and Stock Returns (April 24, 2014). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2017091 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2017091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Balakrishnan , T S Harris , P K Sen
The predictive ability of geographic segment disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 1990
Crossref
E Bartov , M Bodnar
Firm valuation, earnings expectations, and the exchange-rate exposure effect
Journal of Finance , volume 49 , p. 1755 - 85 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S M Bartram , G M Bodnar
Crossing the lines: The conditional relation between exchange rate exposure and stock returns in emerging and developed markets
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 31 , p. 766 - 792 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S Basu , S Markov , L Shivakumar
Inflation, earnings forecasts and post-earnings announcement drift
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , p. 403 - 440 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
60,182
RANK
13,796
9 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Arbitrage Risk and Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Richard R. Mendenhall

Liquidity and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Tarun Chordia, Ronnie Sadka, ...

Liquidity and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Tarun Chordia, Amit Goyal, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies