Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How a Two-Step Approach Discloses Different Determinants of Voluntary Social and Environmental Reporting

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Mar 2012

Lies Bouten

Iéseg School of Management

Patricia C. Everaert

Ghent University

Robin W. Roberts

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Date Written: March 20, 2012

Abstract

Previous research on the determinants of voluntary social and environmental disclosure assumes that the determinants underlying the company’s decision to disclose and the disclosure level are the same. This paper addresses the influence of this assumption on: (i) the operationalization of the dependent variables; (ii) the estimation method; and (iii) the subsequent empirical results, using both a sample of listed Belgian and US firms. Overall, the findings suggest that not distinguishing between the determinants underlying the decision to disclose and the disclosure level may be misleading.

Keywords: content analysis, corporate social responsibility, disclosure, estimation methods, Hurdle model

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Bouten, Lies and Everaert, Patricia C. and Roberts, Robin W., How a Two-Step Approach Discloses Different Determinants of Voluntary Social and Environmental Reporting (March 20, 2012). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2026468
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies