Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has IFRS Adoption Affected Management Accounting Systems? Empirical Evidence from Greece

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 268-285

Posted: 22 Mar 2012 Last revised: 6 Dec 2013

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Sotirios Karatzimas

Autonomous University of Barcelona; Autonomous University of Barcelona

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

The present study is an attempt to examine the impact of the IFRS adoption on management accounting. More specifically, the internal reporting methods, the management accounting practices and techniques, as well as, the implications on decision making and the interaction between external and internal reporting, after the IFRS transition in Greece, are explored. Results suggest that the significance of the IFRS-imposed policies in providing efficient managerial information is mostly of moderate magnitude. However, the more IFRS are perceived as important for efficient managerial information provision, the more they affect decision making. Internal and external reporting in the Greek firms appear to interact in various ways, while the findings do not reveal significant changes in the choice of management accounting practices and techniques, after the transition. It is however evident that the more IFRS financial data is used for internal reporting purposes, the more is used for management accounting purposes such as decision making and performance measurement as well.

Keywords: IFRS, management accounting, internal reporting, integration, decision-making, Greece

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Karatzimas, Sotirios and Karatzimas, Sotirios, Has IFRS Adoption Affected Management Accounting Systems? Empirical Evidence from Greece (2013). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 268-285, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2027685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2027685
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,161
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies