Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Firm Characteristics on Trading Volume Reaction to the Earnings Reconciliation from IFRS to U.S. GAAP

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Mar 2012

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Date Written: March 23, 2012

Abstract

The U.S. SEC voted in November 2007 to accept financial statements prepared under IFRS as issued by the IASB without reconciliation to U.S. GAAP for foreign firms. We find that earnings reconciliation from IFRS to U.S. GAAP is positively and significantly associated with abnormal trading volume in the U.S. markets around the release of earnings reconciliation from 2005 to 2006. However, the relation between abnormal trading volume and earnings reconciliation during this period is driven by first-time IFRS users with low institutional holdings. In addition, we do not find any evidence that such a relation depends upon whether a firm applies IFRS as issued by the IASB or jurisdictional versions of IFRS. Extending our sample to 1995-2006 period, we document that the information content of earnings reconciliation is smaller for firms with high institutional holdings than for firms with low institutional holdings. Overall, our evidence provides some insight to the SEC when evaluating its decision to eliminate the reconciliation and contemplating to allow the use of IFRS by U.S. domestic firms.

Keywords: Earnings reconciliation, Trading volume reaction, Institutional ownership, First-time IFRS user

JEL Classification: M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Lucy Huajing and Sami, Heibatollah, The Impact of Firm Characteristics on Trading Volume Reaction to the Earnings Reconciliation from IFRS to U.S. GAAP (March 23, 2012). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2028085
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,579
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies