Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Eliminating the 20-F Reconciliation Requirement for IFRS Filers on Earnings Persistence and Information Uncertainty

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2012

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Michael C. Wolfe

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Spears School of Business

Han Yi

Korea University

Date Written: March 22, 2012

Abstract

On November 15, 2007, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) eliminated the requirement that foreign private issuers reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) include a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP in their 20-F filing. To the extent that the reconciliations had information content, it is possible that the information environment of IFRS filers deteriorated in the post-reconciliation period, unless they voluntarily improved disclosure quality. Using difference-in-differences tests, we examine whether there was any change in the persistence of earnings and analyst forecast dispersion after the new regulation. We find that earnings persistence increased (did not increase) and analyst uncertainty measured by the forecast dispersion did not increase (increased) for firms domiciled in weaker (stronger) investor protection countries. These results suggest that firms from a weaker investor protection environment had a greater incentive to “signal” the quality by voluntarily improving the disclosure quality in the post-reconciliation period to compensate for any possible information loss from no longer providing the reconciliation. Our findings also suggest that the elimination of the reconciliation requirement did not have a uniform effect on IFRS filers and that the effect varies with the firm’s home country reporting environment.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Accounting Convergence, Form 20-F Reconciliation, Earnings Quality

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Tony and Krishnan, Gopal and Wolfe, Michael and Yi, Han, The Impact of Eliminating the 20-F Reconciliation Requirement for IFRS Filers on Earnings Persistence and Information Uncertainty (March 22, 2012). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2028316
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
J Campbell
Understanding risk and return
Journal of Political Economy , volume 104 , issue 2 , p. 298 - 345 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S Cantale
The choice of a foreign market as a signal Posted: 1996
T J Chemmanur , P Fulghieri
Competition and co-operation among exchanges: A theory of cross listing and endogeneous listing standards
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 82 , p. 455 - 489 Posted: 2006
Crossref
L H Chen , H Sami
Trading volume reaction to the earnings reconciliation from
IAS to U.S. GAAP. Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 53 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
568
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,080
RANK
110,759
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies