Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Transfer Valuation in Advance Pricing Agreements between Multinational Enterprises and Tax Authorities

29 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2012

Zvika Afik

Ben Gurion University

Yaron Lahav

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev

Date Written: March 15, 2012

Abstract

Advance pricing agreements are long-term contracts between multinational taxpayers and tax authority(ies), according to which the taxpayer consents to use the agreed upon transfer price for its related transactions for a fixed period of time. We argue that for such an agreement to be based on the principle of arm’s length, the specified transfer price(s) should include a premium that captures the risk transferred from one entity to another. When this risk is not accounted for, the long-term transfer pricing policy specified in the agreement (although supported by tax authorities) is not arm’s length. We present a pricing model that can be easily applied to value such risk and provide an example using real data from U.S. industry.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Advance Pricing Agreement, Risk Valuation, Multinational Enterprise, Intercompany Transaction

JEL Classification: G38, K29, K34, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Afik, Zvika and Lahav, Yaron, Risk Transfer Valuation in Advance Pricing Agreements between Multinational Enterprises and Tax Authorities (March 15, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2034170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2034170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,184
RANK
285,369
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies