Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value in Polish Commercial Bank Reporting

'PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT: WHERE TO LOOK FOR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE?, Oeconomica Publishing House, University of Economics in Prague, 2011

22 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2012

Renata Dylag

Kozminski University

Barbara Kucharczyk

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

The aim of this research is to present information about the application of fair value in the Polish environment. The study focuses on the Polish banking sector and on the evaluation of the practices within the scope of the application of fair value in financial instrument measurement and in their presentation in financial statements prepared in conformity with IAS/IFRS. The study also assesses the impact of these practices on the reliability and applicability of financial information. Data obtained during the research allowed us to evaluate the level of fair value application and the quality of accepted standards and methods by entities. Conduct of the research resulted in gaining information on the scope of fair value application, its evaluation methods and techniques, and the benefits and difficulties related to this process as occurring in Polish bank practices.

Keywords: fair value, Polish banking sector, IFRS/IAS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dylag, Renata and Kucharczyk, Barbara, Fair Value in Polish Commercial Bank Reporting (2011). 'PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT: WHERE TO LOOK FOR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE?, Oeconomica Publishing House, University of Economics in Prague, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2038440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Letter to SEC Posted: 2008-09-23
M Barth
Fair Values and Financial Statement Volatility, chapter in Market Discipline: The Cross-Country and Cross-Industry Evidence Posted: 2004
Measurement Bases for Financial Accounting. Measurement on Initial Recognition
CASB Canadian Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2005
M Dobija
Teoretyczne przesłanki wartości godziwej (Theoretical basis of fair value)
Zeszyty Teoretyczne Rachunkowości nr , volume 32 , issue 88 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
RANK
649,413
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies