Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recognising Revenue from the Construction of Real Estate in Financial Statements of Developers in Poland

Journal of Accounting and Management System, No. 1(35), 2011

19 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2012

Renata Dylag

Kozminski University

Malgorzata Kucharczyk

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

The core business of real estate developers is performance long term developer contracts (directly or by subcontractors), that include constructing and selling residential and non-residential real estates. The characteristic feature of such contracts is the construction of properties that are generally financed by the principal over the whole project, by way of contractually agreed advances, and then – after the investment process has been completed – the ownership right is transferred to the buyer.

Due to no unequivocal regulations in scope of revenue recognition resulting from property development contracts until 31 December 2008 some developers recognised revenues on developer contracts in accordance with IAS 18 “Revenue" some used the method of revenues and expenses percentage-of-completion in accordance with IAS 11 “Construction Contracts”.

The immediate aim of this paper is to analyze accounting policies in scope of revenue recognition resulting from property development contracts performing by developers listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange and to analyze how it have changed in accordance with IFRIC 15 „Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate”, that refers to the moment of recognition of revenues in reference to the sale of real estate.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dylag, Renata and Kucharczyk, Malgorzata, Recognising Revenue from the Construction of Real Estate in Financial Statements of Developers in Poland (2011). Journal of Accounting and Management System, No. 1(35), 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2038408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Accounting Act
amending Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008 adopting certain international accounting standards in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee's (IFRIC) Interpretation 15
Ustawa o rachunkowości z 29 sierpnia 1994 z późniejszymi zmianami , volume 636 Posted: 1994
K Czubakowska
Kontrakty długoterminowe (Long-term contracts). W: Winiarska K. (edit), Rachunkowość zaawansowana Posted: 2009
Dom Development , S A
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ending 31.1.2 Posted: 2008
The costs and benefits of implementing IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, www.efrag.org/files/EFRAG public letters/IFRIC Real Estate Sales/EFRAGs IFRIC 15 Effects Study Report
EFRAG Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,163
RANK
208,171
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies