Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandatory IFRS Adoption Improve Information Comparability?

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2012

Rita Yip

Lingnan University - Department of Accountancy

Danqing Young

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 17, 2012

Abstract

This study examines whether the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the European Union significantly improves information comparability in 17 European countries. We employ three proxies – the similarity of accounting functions, the degree of information transfer, and the similarity of the information content of earnings and of the book value of equity – to measure information comparability. Our results suggest that mandatory IFRS adoption improves cross-country information comparability by making similar things look more alike without making different things look less different. Our results also suggest that both accounting convergence and higher quality information under IFRS are the likely drivers of the comparability improvement. In addition, we find some evidence that cross-country comparability improvement is affected by firms’ institutional environment.

Keywords: IFRS adoption, information comparability, institutional environment

Suggested Citation:

Yip, Rita and Young, Danqing Xu, Does Mandatory IFRS Adoption Improve Information Comparability? (January 17, 2012). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2044295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R W Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization, and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
Crossref
S P Baginski
Intraindustry information transfers associated with management forecasts of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 196 - 216 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,096
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,717
RANK
17,285
16 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies