Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Price Regulation and Accounting Choice

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

Posted: 24 May 2012 Last revised: 3 Feb 2016

Jochen Pierk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Matthias Weil

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics

Date Written: January 12, 2016

Abstract

This paper empirically investigates the interplay of price regulation on the product market and accounting choices. Specifically, we analyze the impact of regulated prices in the German utility sector on the decision to adopt a new accounting regulation one year in advance of the otherwise mandated adoption. This article finds that regulated firms are more likely than non-regulated firms to adopt the new accounting regulation early, thereby achieving higher regulated revenues. Manually analyzing financial statements, we are able to estimate the increase in firm-specific allowed revenues for the regulation period of 2013-2017. This article contributes to the literature by shedding light on the link of industry-specific product market regulation and managers’ accounting choices.

Suggested Citation:

Pierk, Jochen and Weil, Matthias, Price Regulation and Accounting Choice (January 12, 2016). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2065928
 Not Available for Download
0 References
4 Citations
Christof Beuselinck , Ferdinand Elfers , Joachim Gassen , Jochen Pierk
Private Firm Accounting: The European Reporting Environment, Data and Research Perspectives
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 52, Accounting and Business Research, https://doi.org/10.1080/00014788.2021.1982670 · 73 Pages · Posted: 18 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 15 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 691
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kristian D. Allee , Tami Dinh , Arthur Stenzel
Cross-Border Investments in Private Firms: The Benefits of Comparability for Foreign Investors
60 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2022 · Last revised: 10 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 140
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kristian D. Allee , Tami Dinh , Arthur Stenzel
Cross-Border Investments in Private Firms: The Benefits of Comparability for Foreign Investors
64 Pages · Posted: 13 Oct 2023 · Last revised: 10 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 153
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Eva Labro , Jochen Pierk
Accounting Regulation in the European Union
54 Pages · Posted: 20 Dec 2023 · Last revised: 29 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 626
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,593
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies