Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perspectives: Does IFRS Stand for Information Risk?

Financial Analysts Journal, Vol. 68, No. 3, 2012

Posted: 26 May 2012

Ginny Williamson Frings

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Michael Frings

RGA Reinsurance Company

Christian Mastilak

Xavier University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: May 25, 2012

Abstract

In the wake of the recent financial crises, corporations, accounting firms, and regulatory bodies are debating the design of new regulations to improve the integrity of publicly available financial information. Contrary to the positions of the FASB and IASB, the convergence of current U.S. GAAP rules-based standards with proposed IFRS principles-based regulations would increase financial information risk. The veneer of similarity is not enough to ensure comparability of reported financial information across the globe.

Keywords: Financial Statement Analysis, Accounting and Auditing Standards Development, International Accounting Standards Convergence, Financial Reporting System, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Standards, Ethics, and Regulation (SER)

Suggested Citation:

Frings, Ginny Williamson and Frings, Michael and Mastilak, Christian, Perspectives: Does IFRS Stand for Information Risk? (May 25, 2012). Financial Analysts Journal, Vol. 68, No. 3, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2066845
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,816
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies