Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Institutional Factors on Discontinuities in Earnings Distribution: Public Versus Private Firms in Japan

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2012 Last revised: 1 Jul 2014

Akinobu Shuto

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Takuya Iwasaki

Kansai University

Date Written: June 27, 2014

Abstract

Previous studies have shown that, compared with earnings distributions in other countries, there are clear discontinuities at zero in the distribution of earnings levels in Japanese firms (Thomas et al. 2004; Suda and Shuto 2007; Shuto 2009). We predict that two unique institutional factors in Japan — (1) the alignment between financial and tax accounting, and (2) the tight relationship between firms and their banks — cause the discontinuities in earnings distribution. Consistent with this prediction, we find that firms with high marginal tax rates and tight relationships with their banks are more likely to manage earnings to report slightly positive earnings. We also find that this relationship is more pervasive for private firms than public firms. We contribute to the literature by examining a significant research setting that has features of both institutional factors and loss-avoidance behaviors to enable deeper consideration during hypothesis development.

Keywords: Earnings distribution, Discontinuities, Institutional factors, Tax cost, Bank dependence

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Shuto, Akinobu and Iwasaki, Takuya, The Effect of Institutional Factors on Discontinuities in Earnings Distribution: Public Versus Private Firms in Japan (June 27, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2069698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2069698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ). 2010. The report on the meeting on accoun ting standards for unlisted companies. Financial Accounting Standards Foundation/Acc ounting Standards Board of Japan: 1-21. Available at
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Aoki
The contingent governance of teams: Analysis of institutional complementarity
International Economic Review , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 657 - 676 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,602
RANK
354,141
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies