Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Impact of Intangible Asset Investment Toward Company Financial Health and Company Agency Problem: Empirical Research from Indonesian Companies During World Economic Financial Crisis 2006-2011

Journal of Finance and Risk Perspectives, Vol. 1, Issue 2, December 2012, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2012 Last revised: 12 Oct 2012

Dimas Mukhlas Widiantoro

Cracow University of Economics; Universitas Gadjah Mada; University of Agder; Academic Collaboration and Research Network

Date Written: June 6, 2012

Abstract

The thesis examines the impact of intangible investment toward company’s health from 3 perspectives. The indicators of company’s health are company performance, solvency ratio, dividend payout, and debt proportion. Intangible asset analysis was chosen here because of its special characteristic. The first is the character which gives benefits to company. Secondly is the character that put the company in risky point. Intangible asset as the asset of production has equipped the employee with better skills and knowledge on productions. On the other hand, an intangible asset that does not have physical evidence triggered the liquidity problem of the company. Indonesia was chosen as the place of observation because of their growth in intangible asset investment. Based on OECD, after 2002, either Foreign Direct Investment or Intellectual Asset in Indonesia has increased. The thesis attempts to analyze how the impact of this assets toward company performance during the crisis. The research involves 158 Indonesian stock listed companies where the data has been collected from 2006 until crisis 2011. Looking at market value of company, intangible value of company, the dividend policy, and corporate financial structures, empirical evidence reveals a significant positive relationship between the amount of intangible asset and the market value of company.

Keywords: Intangible asset, innovation, Indonesia, Stewart

Suggested Citation:

Widiantoro, Dimas Mukhlas, Measuring the Impact of Intangible Asset Investment Toward Company Financial Health and Company Agency Problem: Empirical Research from Indonesian Companies During World Economic Financial Crisis 2006-2011 (June 6, 2012). Journal of Finance and Risk Perspectives, Vol. 1, Issue 2, December 2012, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2078900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S Aho , S Stėhle , P Stėhle
A critical assessment of Stewart's CIV method Posted: 2011
Measuring Business Excellence , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 27 - 35
Crossref
S Alves , J Martins
The Impact of Intangible Assets on Financial and Governance Policies: UK Evidence
International Research Journal of Finance & Economics , issue 36 , p. 147 - 169 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Marco Becht , Patrick Bolton , Ailsa Roell
Corporate Governance and Control
ECGI - Finance Working Paper No. 02/2002 Pages: 128 Posted: 31 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
812
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,466
RANK
69,661
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Paying Less for Real Estate Brokerage: What Can Make it Happen?

By Robert W. Hahn, Robert E. Litan, ...

Alternative Forms of Mixing Banking with Commerce: Evidence from American History

By Joseph G. Haubrich and João A. C. Santos

The Residential Real Estate Brokerage Industry: What Would More Vigorous Competition Look Like?

By Lawrence J. White

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies