Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Better Measure of Institutional Informed Trading

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2012 Last revised: 18 Jul 2014

Hui Guo

University of Cincinnati - Department of Finance - Real Estate

Buhui Qiu

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: June 2014

Abstract

Although many studies show that the presence of institutional investors facilitates the incorporation of accounting information into financial markets, the evidence of informed trading by institutions is rather limited in the extant literature. We address these inconsistent findings by proposing PC_NII, percentage changes in the number of a stock’s institutional investors, as a novel informed trading measure. PC_NII is better able to detect informed trading than are changes in institutional ownership (∆IO) — the measure commonly used in previous studies — because (1) entries and exits are usually triggered by substantive private information and (2) only a small fraction of institutions have superior information. As conjectured, PC_NII subsumes the information content of ∆IO and other institutional trading and herding measures in the forecast of stock returns, and its strong predictive power for stock returns reflects mainly its close correlation with future earnings surprises. We also show that PC_NII helps address empirical issues that require a reliable measure of institutional informed trading.

Keywords: PC_NII, Informed Trading, Earnings Surprises, Stock Returns

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Hui and Qiu, Buhui, A Better Measure of Institutional Informed Trading (June 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2080462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2080462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ahmed , R Schneible
The impact of regulation fair disclosure on investors' prior information quality: Evidence from an analysis of changes in trading volume and stock price reactions to earnings announcements
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 13 , p. 282 - 299 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ali , C Durtschi , B Lev , M Trombley
Changes in institutional ownership and subsequent earnings announcement abnormal returns
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 3 , p. 221 - 248 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Thanh Son Luong , Buhui Qiu , Ava Wu
Does It Pay to be Socially Connected with Wall Street Brokerages? Evidence from Cost of Equity
Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming · 85 Pages · Posted: 24 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 95
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,781
RANK
241,038
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies