Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Accounting Quality Change Following a Switch from U.S. GAAP to IFRS? Evidence from Germany

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2012

Steve Lin

University of Memphis

William Riccardi

University at Albany - SUNY

Changjiang (John) Wang

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 12, 2012

Abstract

This study examines whether accounting quality changed following a switch from U.S. GAAP to IFRS. Using a sample of German high tech firms that transitioned to IFRS from U.S. GAAP in 2005, we find that accounting numbers under IFRS generally exhibit more earnings management, less timely loss recognition, and less value relevance compared to those under U.S. GAAP. In addition, after analyzing the accounting quality of firms that applied IFRS throughout the entire sample period, we find that, for the metrics suggesting a decline in accounting quality for both groups of firms, the change is significantly more pronounced for firms switching to IFRS from U.S. GAAP. Overall, our findings indicate that the application of U.S. GAAP generally resulted in higher accounting quality than application of IFRS, and a transition from U.S. GAAP to IFRS reduced accounting quality. Our findings provide the first evidence on the potential consequences of a switch from U.S. GAAP to IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS, US GAAP, Germany

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Steve and Riccardi, William and Wang, Changjiang (John), Does Accounting Quality Change Following a Switch from U.S. GAAP to IFRS? Evidence from Germany (June 12, 2012). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2083217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based Accounting Amounts Comparable? Working Paper Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
519
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,795
RANK
123,946
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies