Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FIN Around the World: The Contribution of Financing Activity to Profitability

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 2113557

51 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2012 Last revised: 2 Aug 2012

Russell J. Lundholm

University of British Columbia - Sauder School of Business

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

Date Written: July 1, 2012

Abstract

We study how the availability of domestic credit influences the contribution that financing activities make to a firm’s return on equity (ROE). Using a sample of 51,866 firms from 69 countries, we find that financing activities contribute more to a firm’s ROE in countries with higher domestic credit. The higher contribution of financing activities is not driven by firms taking greater leverage in these countries, but by firms realizing a higher spread (i.e., a greater difference in operating performance and borrowing cost) when more domestic credit is available. Also, we find that firms partially substitute trade credit for financial credit, with large firms exhibiting the greatest rate of substitution. For small firms, the rate of substitution improves with the country’s available domestic credit, while large firms are insensitive to this friction. The findings suggest that both country and firm-level factors have a significant impact on how financing activities contribute to corporate performance.

Keywords: Domestic Credit, Financial Statement Analysis, Return on Equity, Corporate Performance

JEL Classification: F30, G15, M40

Suggested Citation:

Lundholm, Russell J. and Serafeim, George and Yu, Gwen, FIN Around the World: The Contribution of Financing Activity to Profitability (July 1, 2012). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 2113557, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2113557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2113557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
F Allen , L Bartiloro , O Kowalewski
The Financial System of the EU 25, mimeo Posted: 2005
Crossref
T Beck , A Demirgüç-Kunt , R Levine
Financial Structure and Economic Growth: A Cross-Country Comparison of Banks, Markets, and Development , p. 17 - 80 Posted: 2001
T Beck , A Demirguc-Kunt , V Maksimovic
Financial and Legal Constraints to Growth: Does Firm Size Matter
Journal of Finance , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 177 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T Beck , A Demirguc-Kunt , V Maksimovic
Financing patterns around the world: Are small firms different
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 89 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 487 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
528
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,299
RANK
121,421
3 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Dependence and Growth

By Raghuram G. Rajan and Luigi Zingales

Stock Markets, Banks, and Growth: Panel Evidence

By Thorsten Beck and Ross Levine

Stock Markets, Banks, and Growth: Panel Evidence

By Thorsten Beck and Ross Levine

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies