Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Measure Country Level Financial Reporting Quality?

36 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2012

Qingliang Tang

University of Western Sydney

Huifa Chen

Shanghai Maritime University

Zhijun Lin

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: May 18, 2012

Abstract

This study constructs six accounting and auditing indicators to develop a comprehensive index to measure financial reporting quality of 38 main capital markets in the world from 2000 to 2007. In order to test the validity of the methodology, we use the index to tests national institutional impact on financial reporting quality and find results that are consistent with our prediction and previous studies. The evidence suggests the innovative quality measure is appropriate and provide a useful tool for researchers who concern financial reporting quality at country level.

Keywords: Country level financial reporting quality, financial reporting quality indicators and index

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Qingliang and Chen, Huifa and Lin, Zhijun, How to Measure Country Level Financial Reporting Quality? (May 18, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2114810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2114810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
K Ahmed , &amp; J Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: a meta-analysis
British Accounting Review , volume 31 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Ball , G Foster
Corporate financial reporting: a methodological review of empirical research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 161 - 234 Posted: 1982
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , &amp; A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,378
RANK
35,543
5 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies