Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has the IASB Been Successful in Making Accounting Earnings More Useful for Prediction and Valuation? UK Evidence

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2012 Last revised: 28 Mar 2013

Young-Soo Choi

Sungkyunkwan University

Ken V. Peasnell

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Joao Toniato

UBS Investment Bank

Abstract

When producing IFRS financial standards, one of the IASB’s main goals was to create a set of standards which were more useful to investors as a predictive tool. We assess the success of the IASB in this goal by investigating the effects of the introduction of IFRS on the relative information content of reported earnings and forecasted earnings under UK GAAP and IFRS. Results indicate that the value relevance of forecasted earnings is significantly lower under IFRS while the value relevance of reported earnings is significantly larger. These findings suggest that IFRS substitutes price-relevant information previously provided to the market in the form of analyst forecasts by information encoded by companies in their reported earnings. This implies that the IASB was indeed successful in its stated goal. Furthermore, our results are in line with contemporary studies and point towards IFRS forecasts being more accurate and less dispersed than UK GAAP forecasts. This, in turn, implies that analysts are able to provide more informative forecasts under IFRS than under pre-IFRS regimes and that the aforementioned substitution effect is not a consequence of any decrease in the quality of forecasts under the new regime.

Keywords: IFRS, Value relevance, Analyst Forecasts, Valuation, Earnings

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Young-Soo and Peasnell, Kenneth V. and Toniato, Joao, Has the IASB Been Successful in Making Accounting Earnings More Useful for Prediction and Valuation? UK Evidence. Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2116583 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2116583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Statement of Standard Accounting Practice Posted: 1988
Crossref
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Posted: 1997
Crossref
Reporting Financial Performance Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,913
RANK
243,680
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies