Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Measurement for Private Equities: A Plus or a Minus for Stakeholders?

CAREFIN Research Paper No. 01/2012

35 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2012 Last revised: 31 Oct 2012

Vera Palea

University of Turin

Renato Maino

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 25, 2011

Abstract

In this paper, we discuss the potential economic consequences of IFRS 13 endorsement in the European Union. Our focus is on private equity valuation.

We review prior research and perform a field-test in order to shed light on the possible effects of its adoption.

Our paper questions whether fair value, as defined by IFRS 13, is an appropriate measure for private equities and can effectively contribute to enhance transparency and comparability in financial statement, which is one of the explicit purposes of both the IASB and the European Union Regulation 1606/2002. Our field-test supports this claim and shows that market-based valuation techniques fail to provide fair values which are a faithful representation of the economic real world phenomena they purport to represent. Consistently with previous research, we show that market and transaction multiples do a poor job and relevant entity-specific adjustments will be necessary.

Keywords: Fair Value Accounting, IFRS 9, IFRS 13, Private Equity, Valuation Techniques

JEL Classification: M41, G20

Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera and Maino, Renato, Fair Value Measurement for Private Equities: A Plus or a Minus for Stakeholders? (November 25, 2011). CAREFIN Research Paper No. 01/2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2117116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2117116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Aboody D , E Barth M , Kasznik R
Do firms understate stock option-based compensation expense disclosed under FAS 123?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 429 - 461 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Baiman S , Verrecchia R
The relation among capital markets, financial disclosure, production efficiency, and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Crossref
B Barry C , J Brown S
Differential Information and Security Market Equilibrium
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 407 - 422 Posted: 1985
Crossref
B Barry C , J Brown S
Limited Information as a Source of Risk
Journal of Portfolio Management , p. 66 - 72 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,263
RANK
125,719
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

BAFFI Centre on Economics, Finance & Regulation Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World: An Empirical Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World: An Empirical Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts

By Steven N. Kaplan and Per Strömberg

Venture Capital and the Structure of Capital Markets: Banks Versus Stock Markets

By Ronald J. Gilson and Bernard S. Black

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies