Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Opacity and Closed-End Country Fund Discounts

48 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2012 Last revised: 12 Feb 2016

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Qingyuan Li

Wuhan University - School of Economics and Management

Xin Wang

The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: February 12, 2016

Abstract

Closed-end country funds are interesting in that they have two sets of prices for the same underlying assets – the net asset value (NAV) of the fund holdings as measured using the underlying firms’ stock prices in their home markets and the fund price at which the fund trades on a U.S. stock exchange. Utilizing the theoretical framework of information asymmetry in two separate markets for an identical asset, we find that the difference between the fund’s NAV and its trading price (i.e., the fund discount) is positively associated with the earnings opacity of the underlying companies. Such a positive association is consistent with the notion that U.S. investors face higher information acquisition and processing costs when compared with local investors and therefore earnings opacity exacerbates the information disadvantage of U.S. investors, leading to a larger fund discount. We further show that the positive relation varies predictably with U.S. investors’ information acquisition and processing costs and with the extent to which host stock markets are segmented from the U.S. market. Specifically, we find that the positive relation between earnings opacity and fund discounts is weaker for those funds with more U.S. cross-listings in fund holdings, with underlying companies following financial reporting standards similar to U.S. standards, and with less segmented local markets.

Keywords: Closed-end country funds, fund discounts, earnings opacity, information acquisition and processing, international

JEL Classification: F30, G12, G15, G30, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Li, Qingyuan and Wang, Xin, Earnings Opacity and Closed-End Country Fund Discounts (February 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2118617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2118617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J Ammer , S B Holland , D C Smith , F E Warnock
U.S. international equity investment. Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 , issue 5 , p. 1109 - 1139 Posted: 2012
Crossref
K H Bae , H Tan , W Michael
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
B Baik , J K Kang , J M Kim
Local institutional investors, information asymmetries, and equity returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2010
Crossref
W Bailey , J Jagtiani
Foreign ownership restrictions and stock prices in the Thai capital market
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 87 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
585
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,791
RANK
106,656
8 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does the Stock Market Harm Investment Incentives?

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Comparing the Investment Behavior of Public and Private Firms

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Does Public Ownership of Equity Improve Earnings Quality?

By Dan Givoly, Carla Hayn, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies