Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why African Stock Markets Should Formally Harmonise and Integrate their Operations

African Review of Economics and Finance, Vol 4, No. 1, pp.53-72.

20 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2012 Last revised: 16 Jan 2013

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: August 5, 2012

Abstract

Despite experiencing rapid growth in their number and size, existing evidence suggests that African stock markets remain highly fragmented, small, illiquid and technologically weak, severely affecting their informational efficiency. Therefore, this study attempts to empirically ascertain whether African stock markets can improve their informational efficiency by formally harmonising and integrating their operations. Employing parametric and non-parametric variance-ratios tests on 8 African continent-wide and 8 individual national daily share price indices from 1995 to 2011, we find that irrespective of the test employed, the returns of all the 8 African continent-wide indices investigated appear to have better normal distribution properties compared with the 8 individual national share price indices examined. We also report evidence of statistically significant weak form informational efficiency of the African continent-wide share price indices over the individual national share price indices irrespective of the test statistic used. Our results imply that formal harmonisation and integration of African stock markets may improve their informational efficiency.

Keywords: Harmonisation and integration, Efficiency, Share price indices, Stock markets, Africa

JEL Classification: G20

Suggested Citation:

Ntim, Collins G., Why African Stock Markets Should Formally Harmonise and Integrate their Operations (August 5, 2012). African Review of Economics and Finance, Vol 4, No. 1, pp.53-72., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2124376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
African Stock Markets
African Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA Posted: 2012-07
P Alagidede
Randomness and Non-linear Dependence in African Equity Markets
African Review of Economics and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2009
P Alagidede
Equity market integration in Africa
African Review of Economics and Finance , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 88 - 119 Posted: 2010
J Appiah-Kusi , K Menyah
Return Predictability in African Stock Markets
Review of Financial Economics , volume 12 , p. 247 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,298
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Emerging African Stock Markets Improve Their Informational Efficiency by Formally Harmonising and Integrating Their Operations?

By Collins G. Ntim, Kwaku K. Opong, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies