Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multinational Diversification and Performance: A Reevaluation of the Evidence

17 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2012 Last revised: 25 Sep 2012

Philip H. Siegel

Florida Atlantic University

Carl R. Borgia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jeffrey Lessard

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT)

Khondkar E. Karim

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Date Written: August 7, 2012

Abstract

The purpose of this research is to re-examine the benefits (if any) that could apply to US based corporations through increased international investment.

Design, Methodology, Approach: Expanding upon prior studies, firms with foreign operations are segmented by three different schemes: the percentage of foreign tax liability to total tax liability; the percentage of foreign sales to total sales, and the percentage of foreign assets to total assets. We evaluate whether the degree of foreign participation affects the risk-return profile of the firms by categorizing firms with foreign participation into quintiles.

Findings: The research indicates significant differences exist between domestic firms and multinational firms. The extent of multinational diversification does not provide incremental economic benefit. The advantages enjoyed by multinational corporations appear to have disappeared over time due to an increasing integration of the global economy.

Originality/Value: The study suggests that the extent of multinational diversification does not provide incremental economic benefit. The advantages enjoyed by multinational corporations appear to have disappeared over time due to an increasing integration of the global economy.

Keywords: multinational corporate performance, international risk and return

JEL Classification: E39, F23, G15, M49, N20

Suggested Citation:

Siegel, Philip H. and Borgia, Carl R. and Lessard, Jeffrey and Karim, Khondkar E., Multinational Diversification and Performance: A Reevaluation of the Evidence (August 7, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2126268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2126268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M Annavarjula , S Beldona
Multinationality-performance relationship: A review and reconceptualization
International Journal of Organizational Analysis , volume 8 , p. 48 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Riahi-Belkaoui
The effects of the degree of internationalization on firm performance
International Business Review , volume 7 , p. 315 - 325 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K Roth , S Donnell
Foreign subsidiary compensation strategy: An agency theory perspective
Academy of Management Journal , volume 39 , p. 678 - 703 Posted: 1996
Crossref
H Shalchi , A Hosseini
The impact of FASB Statement 52 on foreign exchange contracts: An empirical evaluation
Advances in International Accounting , volume 3 , p. 189 - 201 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,016
RANK
276,301
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Tobin's Q, Corporate Diversification and Firm Performance

By Larry H.p. Lang and René M. Stulz

The Cost of Diversity: The Diversification Discount and Inefficient Investment

By Raghuram G. Rajan, Henri Servaes, ...

The Cost of Diversity: The Diversification Discount and Inefficient Investment

By Raghuram G. Rajan, Henri Servaes, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies