Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tangible Long-Lived Asset Impairments and Future Operating Cash Flows under US GAAP and IFRS

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2012 Last revised: 26 Apr 2017

Elizabeth A. Gordon

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Hsiao-Tang Hsu

Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi

Date Written: December 16, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the predictive value of tangible long-lived asset impairments for changes in future operating cash flows under US GAAP and IFRS. We find that impairments reported under IFRS are negatively associated with changes in future operating cash flows whereas those under US GAAP, on average, are not. We investigate whether differences in the predictive value are attributable to differences in recognition or measurement, providing evidence suggesting impairment recognition under US GAAP is delayed. Evidence also suggests that the value-in-use measurement attribute, allowed under IFRS, does not induce underimpairing as IFRS and US GAAP impairments are similarly related to future impairments. The main result of a negative association under IFRS but not US GAAP holds after considering future impairments to control for measurement differences, macro-economic factors, and firm reporting incentives. Further, impairment losses under IFRS are more predictive in high enforcement countries.

Keywords: IFRS, US GAAP, Impairment, Write-off, Enforcement

JEL Classification: D78, F02, M16, M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Gordon, Elizabeth A. and Hsu, Hsiao-Tang, Tangible Long-Lived Asset Impairments and Future Operating Cash Flows under US GAAP and IFRS (December 16, 2016). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2127868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2127868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 26 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
H Amiraslani , G E Iatridis , P Pope
Accounting for asset impairment: A test for IFRS compliance across Europe. A Research Report of the Centre for Financial Analysis and Reporting Research Posted: 2013
R K Atiase , D E Platt , S Y Tse
Operational restructuring charges and postrestructuring performance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 522 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Kanellos Toudas
The International Standards on Auditing as a convergence parameter between US GAAP and IFRS
Corporate Board role duties and composition , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 15 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Fabio Moraes da Costa , Carol Liu , Regina Rosa , Samuel L. Tiras
The Effects of Fair Value on the Matching of Revenues and Expenses: The Case of Asset Revaluations
International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 35 Pages · Posted: 1 May 2020 · Last revised: 8 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 197
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,890
RANK
33,551
2 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies