Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global VAT: A Refundable Cost of Doing International Business (An Exploratory Study of Awareness and Experiences of Exporters from Gujarat State of India)

Mapping the Global Future: Evolution Through Innovation, and Excellence”, Eds., Nejdet Delener, Leonora Fuxman, F. Victor Lu, and Susana Rodrigues, published by Global Business and Technology Association (GBATA), New York, USA, July, 2012, pp. 128-135. Printed in the United States of America, 2012

9 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2012 Last revised: 28 Feb 2013

Pawan K. Chugan

Nirma University - Institute of Management; AIIM - Ahmedabad; SPM - PDPU

Amitabh Rai

Nirma University of Science and Technology

Date Written: July 10, 2012

Abstract

The costs of doing business internationally are many. Economizing on such costs is essential to be globally competitive. In this context, a rather overlooked area of cost reduction is the refund of global VAT incurred abroad on business expenses. A large number of exporters across the world do not claim such refunds either due to ignorance or because of legal and complex procedures involved in applying for such refunds. In this regard, this paper presents an exploratory attempt to understand the awareness and experiences on global VAT refunds from the exporters of Gujarat State of India vis-à-vis aims at creating awareness amongst the exporting community for availing such legitimate refunds and sets out an agenda for future detailed research on this hitherto unexplored subject.

Keywords: Value Added Tax, Global VAT Refunds, VAT Recovery Agencies, Awareness for VAT Refund

JEL Classification: E6, F23, F42, H2, H32, H87, K34

Suggested Citation:

Chugan, Pawan Kumar and Rai, Amitabh, Global VAT: A Refundable Cost of Doing International Business (An Exploratory Study of Awareness and Experiences of Exporters from Gujarat State of India) (July 10, 2012). Mapping the Global Future: Evolution Through Innovation, and Excellence”, Eds., Nejdet Delener, Leonora Fuxman, F. Victor Lu, and Susana Rodrigues, published by Global Business and Technology Association (GBATA), New York, USA, July, 2012, pp. 128-135. Printed in the United States of America, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2128251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Richar T Ainsworth
Carousel Fraud in the EU: A Digital VAT Solution
Tax Notes International , p. 443 - 491 Posted: 2006
Richard M Bird
Review of Principles and Practice of Value Added Taxation: Lessons for Developing Countries
Canadian Tax Journal , volume 41 , issue 6 , p. 1222 - 1247 Posted: 1993
Jai Boehmer
Amex Offers VAT Reclaim Posted: 2005-06-20
Borselli Fabrizio
Organized VAT Fraud: features, Magnitude, Policy Perspectives
Occasional Paper , volume 106 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,608
RANK
407,466
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Coordinating Tariff Reduction and Domestic Tax Reform

By Michael Keen and Jenny E. Ligthart

On Selective Indirect Tax Reform in Developing Countries

By M. Shahe Emran and Joseph E. Stiglitz

Tax Revenue and (or?) Trade Liberalization

By Thomas Baunsgaard and Michael Keen

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies