Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Industrial Sector Transparency on Bank Risk-taking and Banking System Fragility

72 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2012 Last revised: 4 Jan 2013

Sudarshan Jayaraman

Simon Business School, University of Rochester; University of Rochester - Simon Business School

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: August 29, 2012

Abstract

We show real effects in the banking sector that emanate from transparency in the industrial sector. Transparent financial reporting by industrial firms facilitates access to arm’s-length financing from capital markets and diminishes these firms’ reliance on banks. Banks, as a result, face increased competition in their product markets and seek to offset their lost rents by – (i) taking on more risk, (ii) reducing their cost structures and (iii) increasing the intensity of intermediation. The net effect of these activities is to lower the likelihood of a banking crisis in countries with greater borrower transparency. Additional tests suggest that risk-taking is channeled more through non-lending than lending activities, pointing to the beneficial role of diversification in reducing bank fragility. Tests using the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as a shock to borrower transparency indicate that endogeneity is unlikely to be driving our findings. A difference-in-differences design shows that risk-taking, cost efficiency and bank intermediation in banks of IFRS adopting countries are more salient than those in non-adopting countries. Overall, we provide novel evidence that transparency of the industrial sector strengthens the banking sector.

Keywords: Transparency, banks, risk-taking, crises, bank fragility

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Kothari, S.P., The Effect of Industrial Sector Transparency on Bank Risk-taking and Banking System Fragility (August 29, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2138156 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2138156
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Gilberto Seravalli
An Introduction to Place-Based Development Economics and Policy
, p. 125 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Carlo Maria Gallimberti
Borrowers’ Accounting Information and Banks’ Lending Decisions
48 Pages · Posted: 26 Jul 2016 · Last revised: 27 Jul 2016 · Downloads: 374
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Oh Suk Yang
한-중동 금융협력 활성화를 위한 국내 은행의 중동 금융시장 진출 전략 및 기대효과 (Expected Effects of Entrenching Financial Cooperation between Korea and the Middle-East and International Expansion Strategies of Korean Banks to the Middle-East Financial Markets)
KIEP Research Paper No. Policy Analysis-13-34 · 267 Pages · Posted: 2 Jul 2014 · Downloads: 91
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brian Singleton-Green
The Effects of Mandatory IFRS Adoption in the EU: A Review of Empirical Research
Information for Better Markets, Forthcoming · 166 Pages · Posted: 1 Nov 2014 · Last revised: 20 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 1,372
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
428
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,998
RANK
155,999
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies