Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Companies’ Disclosure Practices, and Market Transparency: A Cross Country Study

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2012 Last revised: 18 Dec 2015

Wendy Beekes

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Philip R. Brown

UWA Business School, M250; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Wenwen Zhan

Lancaster University

Qiyu Zhang

Lancaster University Management School

Date Written: December 17, 2015

Abstract

We examine the link between corporate governance, companies’ disclosure practices and their equity market transparency in a study of more than 5,000 listed companies in 23 countries covering the period 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2008. Our results confirm the belief that better-governed firms make more frequent disclosures to the market. We also find greater disclosure in common law relative to code law countries. However firms with better governance in both code and common law countries make more frequent disclosures. We measure market transparency by the timeliness of prices. In contrast to single country studies, results show, for the 23 countries collectively, better corporate governance is associated with less timely share prices. This would suggest that a firm substitutes better corporate governance for transparency. We are thus led to the conclusion that even if information is disclosed more frequently by better-governed firms, it does not necessarily follow that information is reflected in share prices on a timelier basis.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Disclosure Practices, Market Transparency, Legal Origin, Timeliness of Price Discovery

JEL Classification: G30, G38, M40

Suggested Citation:

Beekes, Wendy and Brown, Philip R. and Zhan, Wenwen and Zhang, Qiyu, Corporate Governance, Companies’ Disclosure Practices, and Market Transparency: A Cross Country Study (December 17, 2015). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2139641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2139641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO Stock Option Awards and the Timing of Corporate Voluntary Disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R I Aggarwal , R Erel , R Stulz , Williamson
Differences in Governance Practices Between U.S. and Foreign Firms: Measurement, Causes, and Consequences , volume 22 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does Governance Travel Around the World. Evidence from Institutional Investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
G A Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
591
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,708
RANK
105,207
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies