Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Earnings Quality – Evidence from European Blue Chips

HHL Working Paper Series No. 112

43 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2012 Last revised: 17 Feb 2014

Marcus Salewski

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: January 7, 2014

Abstract

Based on the notion that the results of prior research are mixed, this study reinvestigates the association between corporate social responsibility and earnings quality. More precisely, we examine the association between corporate social responsibility and the degree of earnings management, the degree of accounting conservatism and the quality of accruals. We find that firms with high corporate social responsibility ratings are more likely to engage in earnings management, to report bad news less timely and to have lower quality accruals. In contrast to prior research, our sample is based on European firms applying IFRS. For this reason, we argue that there are country-specific characteristics which moderate the association between corporate social responsibility and earnings quality and provide additional analyses which support this notion. Our results indicate that the increasing trend to invest in and to report about corporate social responsibility is not necessarily accompanied by higher quality financial statements.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Earnings Quality, Financial Reporting Quality, Business Ethics, Earnings Management, Accounting Conservatism, Accrual Quality

Suggested Citation:

Salewski, Marcus and Zülch, Henning, The Association between Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Earnings Quality – Evidence from European Blue Chips (January 7, 2014). HHL Working Paper Series No. 112, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2141768 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2141768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
J R Agnew , L R Szykman
Asset Allocation and Information Overload: The Influence of Information Display, Asset Choice and Investor Experience
Journal of Behavioral Finance , volume 6 , p. 57 - 70 Posted: 2005
F P Balducci
Practica della mercatura
Mediaeval Academy of America Posted: 1340
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 24 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,346
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,431
RANK
8,149
8 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies