Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Firms Talk, Do Investors Listen? The Role of Trust in Stock Market Reactions to Corporate Earnings Announcements

Journal of Financial Economics, 117(1), 190-223

72 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2012 Last revised: 13 Jun 2015

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Fei Xie

University of Delaware - Lerner College of Business and Economics; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Xiangang Xin

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: June 10, 2015

Abstract

We examine whether the level of trust in a country affects investors’ perception and utilization of information transmitted by firms through financial disclosure. Specifically, we investigate the effect of societal trust on investor reactions to corporate earnings announcements. We test two competing hypotheses: on the one hand, corporate earnings announcements are perceived as more credible by investors in more trusting societies and therefore elicit stronger investor reactions; on the other hand, societal trust mitigates outside investors’ concern of moral hazard and reduces the value of corporate earnings announcements to them, thereby weakening their reactions to these events. We analyze the abnormal trading volume and abnormal stock return variance during the earnings announcement period in a large sample of firm-year observations across 25 countries, and find that both measures of investor reactions to earnings announcements are significantly higher in more trusting countries. We also find that the positive effect of societal trust on investor reactions to earnings news is more pronounced (1) when a country’s investor protection and disclosure requirements are weaker, suggesting that trust acts as a substitute for formal institutions, (2) when a country’s average education level is lower, consistent with less educated people relying more on trust in making economic decisions, and (3) when firm level information asymmetry is higher, supporting the notion that trust plays a more important role in poorer information environments.

Keywords: Culture, Trust, Investor Reaction, Corporate Earnings Announcement, Investor Protection, Disclosure Requirements, Education, Information Asymmetry

JEL Classification: F39, G14, G28, G39, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pevzner, Mikhail and Xie, Fei and Xin, Xiangang, When Firms Talk, Do Investors Listen? The Role of Trust in Stock Market Reactions to Corporate Earnings Announcements (June 10, 2015). Journal of Financial Economics, 117(1), 190-223, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2144835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2144835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,904
RANK
45,408
37 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance and Equity Prices

By Paul A. Gompers, Joy L. Ishii, ...

What Matters in Corporate Governance?

By Lucian A. Bebchuk, Alma Cohen, ...

Governance Mechanisms and Equity Prices

By Martijn Cremers and Vinay B. Nair

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies