Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Pecking Order and Financing Decisions: Evidence from Changes to Financial Reporting Regulation

39 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2012 Last revised: 7 Apr 2020

Patricia L. Naranjo

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Daniel Saavedra

UCLA Anderson School of Management

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: April 6, 2020

Abstract

We use the staggered introduction of a major financial reporting regulation worldwide to study whether firms make financing decisions consistent with the pecking order theory. Exploiting cross-country and within country-year variation, we document that treated firms increase their issuance of external financing (and ultimately increase investment) after the new regime. Further, firms make different leverage decisions (debt vs. equity) around the new regulation depending on their ex-ante debt capacity, which allows them to adjust their capital structure. Our findings highlight the importance of the pecking order theory in explaining financing as well as investment policies.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Regulation, Financing Decisions, Information Asymmetry, Capital Structure, International Accounting, IAS, IFRS

JEL Classification: G15, G30, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Naranjo, Patricia L. and Saavedra, Daniel and Verdi, Rodrigo S., The Pecking Order and Financing Decisions: Evidence from Changes to Financial Reporting Regulation (April 6, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2147838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2147838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,623
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,912
RANK
25,766
10 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies