Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying IFRS Mandatory: Evidence from Greek Listed Companies

European Research Studies Journal, Volume XIV, Issue (4), pp. 71-96, 2011

Posted: 24 Sep 2012 Last revised: 25 Oct 2012

Konstantinos Papadatos

University of Patras - Department of Business Administration

Athanasios Bellas

University of Patras

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

The aim of the present study is to record the attitude of Greek listed companies towards the mandatory adoption of IFRS, in Greece. In this context, a questionnaire was send to the listed companies of the Athens Stock Exchange (ASE) in 2008. The 135 responses revealed the advantages of the mandatory adoption of IFRS for firms, the problems and the obstacles that they face for their implementation and their perceptions regarding how IFRS affect investors. In addition, it is examined whether the firms specific characteristics (size, profitability and the level of fixed assets) affect their attitude to IFRS.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Greek Listed Firms, Greek Accounting Standards (GAS), Mandatory Adoptions, Account Preparers

JEL Classification: M41, M49, F23

Suggested Citation:

Papadatos, Konstantinos and Bellas, Athanasios, Applying IFRS Mandatory: Evidence from Greek Listed Companies (2011). European Research Studies Journal, Volume XIV, Issue (4), pp. 71-96, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2151436
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
904
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies