Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Capital Market Consequences of Language Barriers in the Conference Calls of Non-U.S. Firms

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Harvard Business School Research Paper No. 2154948

50 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2012 Last revised: 13 Jan 2016

Francois Brochet

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Patricia L. Naranjo

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

Date Written: November 1, 2015

Abstract

We examine how language barriers affect the capital market reaction to information disclosures. Using transcripts from non-U.S. firms’ English-language conference calls, we find that the calls of firms in countries with greater language barriers are more likely to contain non-plain English and erroneous expressions. For non-U.S. firms that hire an English-speaking manager, we find less use of non-plain English and fewer erroneous expressions. Calls with a greater use of non-plain English and more erroneous expressions show lower intraday price movement and trading volume. The capital market responses to non-plain English and erroneous expressions are more negative when the firm is located in a non-English-speaking country and has more English-speaking analysts participating in the call. Our results highlight that, when disclosure happens verbally, language barriers between speakers and listeners affect its transparency, which in turn impacts the market’s reaction.

Keywords: Linguistic complexity; Non-plain English; Voluntary disclosure; Capital market consequences; Language barriers

JEL Classification: G14, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brochet, Francois and Naranjo, Patricia L. and Yu, Gwen, The Capital Market Consequences of Language Barriers in the Conference Calls of Non-U.S. Firms (November 1, 2015). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Harvard Business School Research Paper No. 2154948, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2154948 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2154948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
W Allen
Readability of instructional film commentary
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 36 , p. 164 - 168 Posted: 1952
Crossref
A Alter , D Oppenheimer
Predicting short-term stock fluctuations by using processing fluency
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , volume 103 , p. 9369 - 9372 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: the impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Baginski , J Hassell , M Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in U.S. and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
16 Citations
Mark Lang , Lorien Stice-Lawrence
Textual analysis and international financial reporting: Large sample evidence
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 2-3 , p. 110 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Anne Heinrichs , Jihwon Park , Eugene F. Soltes
Who Consumes Firm Disclosures? Evidence from Earnings Conference Calls
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 3 , p. 205 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Russell J. Lundholm , Rafael Rogo , Jenny Li Zhang
Restoring the Tower of Babel: How Foreign Firms Communicate with U.S. Investors
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 4 , p. 1453 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Gus De Franco , Ole-Kristian Hope , Dushyantkumar Vyas , Yibin Zhou
Analyst Report Readability
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 76 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,452
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,539
RANK
30,475
16 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies