Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Where in the world are "permanently reinvested" foreign earnings?

49 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2012 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

Jennifer Blouin

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Linda K. Krull

University of Oregon

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Date Written: October 1, 2012

Abstract

This study uses permanently reinvested earnings (PRE) reported in U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs) financial statements, combined with detailed information on foreign affiliate assets to estimate the location and composition of PRE. We use these estimates to study the motivations for PRE designations and the implications of PRE for growth, liquidity, and the potential effects of U.S. tax reform. Our analysis suggests that PRE designations are driven by tax, earnings, and growth incentives – 95 percent of PRE is located in affiliates that would require recognition of an expected repatriation tax expense, and 38 percent of PRE is in high growth affiliates. While our estimates suggest that most PRE are associated with unrecognized repatriation tax obligations, the existence of some PRE in high tax jurisdictions reduces the potential tax cost associated with PRE. We also find that, for firms in overall non-binding foreign tax credit positions, a significantly greater proportion of PRE in low tax jurisdictions is held in cash, relative to high tax jurisdictions, suggesting liquidity implications arising from the current tax system.

Keywords: permanently reinvested earnings; repatriation tax

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Blouin, Jennifer and Krull, Linda K. and Robinson, Leslie, Where in the world are "permanently reinvested" foreign earnings? (October 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2154662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2154662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
J Blouin , L Krull , L Robinson
Is U.S. multinational repatriation policy influenced by reporting incentives?
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2012
L L Bryant-Kutcher , D Eiler , Guenther
Taxes and financial assets: Valuing permanently reinvested earnings
National Tax Journal , volume 61 , issue 4 , p. 699 - 721 Posted: 2008
J Collins , J R M Hand , D Shackelford , J Hines
Valuing deferral: The effect of permanently reinvested earnings on stock prices
International Taxation and Multinational Activity , p. 143 - 172 Posted: 2000
M Desai , F Foley , J Hines
Dividend policy inside the multinational firm
Financial Management , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 26 Posted: 2007
Load more
8 Citations
Kimberly S. Krieg
Advances in Taxation
, p. 25 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Sharon P. Katz , Urooj Khan , Andrew P. Schmidt
Tax Avoidance and Dupont Measures of Future Performance
Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 15-29 · 41 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2015 · Downloads: 646
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
ZERO DENG
Foreign Exchange Risk, Hedging, and Tax‐Motivated Outbound Income Shifting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 953 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Kenneth Klassen , Stacie Kelley
A Model of the Cost of Income Shifting with an Application to Tax Planning and E-Commerce
39 Pages · Posted: 1 Mar 2013 · Downloads: 381
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,613
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,454
RANK
26,009
8 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Determinants and Implications of Corporate Cash Holdings

By Tim C. Opler, Lee Pinkowitz, ...

The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash

By Heitor Almeida, Murillo Campello, ...

Why Do U.S. Firms Hold so Much More Cash than They Used to?

By Thomas W. Bates, Kathleen M. Kahle, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies