Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Culture on Accounting Disclosures: The Case of the UAE

23 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2012

Yass Alkafaji

American University of Sharjah

Date Written: October 1, 2012

Abstract

Purpose – The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is evolving and developing rapidly. This nation has a long tradition rooted in Arabic and Islamic culture and subcultures. As the country is developing into an economic force in the region, more interest is focused on its corporate governance, transparency and accounting measurement/disclosure. The purpose of this paper is to examine the changes in the country’s culture and its influence on accounting systems.

Methodology/Approach – We used the inductive approach in applying the models developed by Hofstede and Gray to the UAE environment. The methodology is conceptual with some empirical evidence.

Findings – Gray’s models were able to predict three of the four models developed by S.J. Gray. The study demonstrated that the UAE’s accounting authority is largely regulated by the government with weak accounting and auditing professions that there is a lack of uniformity in accounting and auditing standards due to the large expatriate accounting and auditing talent (contrary to Gray’s model which predicted high uniformity); it is conservative in measuring accounting values; and that it lacks transparency and leans toward secrecy in disclosure.

Research Limitations – Hofstede’s cultural scores may be outdated and may not apply to the modern UAE. Some evidence provided may be subjective using the authors’ knowledge of the culture and accounting practices.

Article Type – Conceptual paper.

Keywords: United Arab Emirates (UAE), accounting and culture, Hofstede and Gray models, application of international standards in the UAE

Suggested Citation:

Alkafaji, Yass, The Influence of Culture on Accounting Disclosures: The Case of the UAE (October 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2155123 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2155123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Market establishment Posted: 2007-06-03
Y Alkafaji
International accounting and its environment: An empirical investigation , p. 627 - 664 Posted: 1988
M Al-Twaijri , I Al-Muhaiza
Hofstede's cultural dimensions in the GCC countries: An empirical investigation
International Journal of Value-Based Management , issue 9 , p. 121 - 131 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Ame Info
TNI says tighter UAE market control is improving disclosure habits, but data is inconsistent Posted: 2006-06-03
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,730
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,849
RANK
23,334
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies