Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Bank Loan Contracting

51 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2012 Last revised: 5 Mar 2013

Tai-Yuan CHEN

Department of Accounting, HKUST Business School, Hong Kong University of Science & Technology

Chen-lung Chin

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Shiheng Wang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Chun Yao

National Chengchi University (NCCU)

Date Written: January 8, 2013

Abstract

This study examines the impact of mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on bank loan contractual terms. Our sample covers more than 20,000 bank loans for borrowers from 23 countries that mandate IFRS adoption and 16 countries that do not mandate IFRS adoption during the 2000-2009 period. We find that relative to borrowers from countries not mandating IFRS adoption, those from IFRS-mandating countries experience an increase in loan interest rates, a reduction in the use of accounting-based financial covenants, an increase in the likelihood that a loan is collateralized, and a reduction in loan maturity subsequent to mandatory adoption of IFRS. Further analysis reveals that these changes occur primarily in borrowers that experience a greater increase in income smoothing or aggressive reporting of accounting accruals subsequent to IFRS adoption. These findings suggest that the IFRS mandate has uneven impacts on accounting quality, and banks alter loan contractual terms in response to these changes accordingly.

Keywords: mandatory IFRS adoption, loan contracting, accounting quality

JEL Classification: G15, G21, G32, F34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Tai-Yuan and Chin, Chen-lung and Wang, Shiheng and Yao, Chun, The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Bank Loan Contracting (January 8, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2159001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2159001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Armstrong , W Guay , J Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K H Bae , V K Goyal
Creditor rights, enforcement and bank loans
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 823 - 860 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asia countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
844
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,413
RANK
66,201
10 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies