Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IAS 39 Reclassification Choice and Analyst Earnings Forecast Properties

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Volume 32, 2013

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 4

33 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2012 Last revised: 17 Feb 2017

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Chu Yeong Lim

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2012

Abstract

In October 2008, the International Accounting Standards Board amended IAS 39 to allow banks to retroactively reclassify financial assets that previously were measured at fair value to amortized cost. By reclassifying financial assets, a bank can potentially avoid recognizing the unrealized fair value losses and thereby increase its income and regulatory capital during a market downturn. We examine the implications of the reclassification decision by banks for the properties of financial analyst earnings forecasts during 2008-2009, when economic conditions were highly volatile. We find that the reclassification choice during the financial crisis reduced analyst forecast accuracy and increased forecast dispersion. We also find that the observed decline in analyst forecasting ability is limited to the year of adoption when the economic environment was highly volatile.

Suggested Citation:

Lim, Chee Yeow and Lim, Chu Yeong and Lobo, Gerald J., IAS 39 Reclassification Choice and Analyst Earnings Forecast Properties (September 1, 2012). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Volume 32, 2013, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2160616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2160616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
M E Barth , A P Hutton
Analyst earnings forecast revisions and the pricing of accruals
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 96 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Barniv , M Myring , W Thomas
The association between the legal and financial reporting environments and forecast performance of individual analysts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 727 - 758 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B K Behn , J Choi , T Kang
Audit quality and properties of analyst earnings forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Bischof , U Bruggemann , H Daske
Relaxation of fair value rules in times of crisis: an analysis of economic benefits and costs of the amendment to IAS 39 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
433
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,550
RANK
128,779
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

An Evaluation of FAS 159 Fair Value Option: Evidence from the Banking Industry

By Chang Joon Song

Accounting Choice and the Fair Value Option

By Katherine Guthrie, James H. Irving, ...

Application of the Fair Value Option Under IAS 39: Effects on the Volatility of Bank Earnings

By Peter Fiechter

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies