Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differential Effects of Corporate Governance on the Cost of Equity and Debt Capital: An International Study

44 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2012

Feifei Zhu

Radford University

Date Written: October 11, 2012

Abstract

This study shows that firms with good corporate governance are consistently associated with both lower cost of equity and cost of debt capital in an international setting. The association between corporate governance and the cost of equity is more pronounced in countries with strong legal systems and extensive disclosure practice. However, corporate governance has larger impacts on the cost of debt in countries characterized by weak legal protection, low transparency, and poor government quality. The results suggest that corporate governance appears especially important to creditors when a firm is exposed to high political risks.

Keywords: corporate governance, the cost of capital, legal institutions, transparency, government quality

JEL Classification: G12, G15, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Zhu, Feifei, Differential Effects of Corporate Governance on the Cost of Equity and Debt Capital: An International Study (October 11, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2160150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2160150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Leuz , Karl V Christian , Francis E Lins , Warnock
Do foreigners invest less in poorly governed firms?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3245 - 3285 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Christian Leuz , Dhananjay Nanda , Peter D Wysocki
Earnings management and investor protection: an international comparison
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , p. 505 - 527 Posted: 2003
Crossref
James Ohlson , Beate E Juettner-Nauroth
Expected EPS and EPS growth as determinants of value
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , p. 349 - 365 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Yaxuan Qi , Lukas Roth , John K Wald
Political rights and the cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , p. 202 - 226 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Ayalew Ali , Bayelign Abebe , Rana Muhammad Ammar Zahid
Does corporate governance and balance sheet feature influence the financial policy of cooperatives? PLS-SEM approach
PLOS ONE , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. e0302121 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Aisha Javaid , Mian Sajid Nazir , Kaneez Fatima
Impact of corporate governance on capital structure: mediating role of cost of capital
Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 760 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Sri Ningsih , Fiona Vista Putri , Yani Permatasari , Ardianto Ardianto , Adel Sarea , Meifaza Ainur Rosyidah
CEO auditor background and cost of debt: an empirical study
Pacific Accounting Review Posted: 2025
Crossref
Sajit Jacob
Firm Competitiveness: An Examination of the Role of Corporate Governance in Defining Cost of Capital
31 Pages · Posted: 11 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 142
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,048
RANK
192,204
9 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Political Rights and the Cost of Debt

By Yaxuan Qi, John K. Wald, ...

Property Rights Protection, Corporate Transparency, and Growth

By Art Durnev, Vihang R. Errunza, ...

Property Rights Protection, Corporate Transparency, and Growth

By Art Durnev, Vihang R. Errunza, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies