Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Country Comparisons of the Effects of Leverage, Intangible Assets, and Tax Havens on Corporate Income Taxes

Tax Law Review, Vol. 65, No. 3, 2012

UNC Kenan-Flagler Research Paper No. 2013-25

18 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2012

Kevin Markle

Michigan State University

Douglas A. Shackelford

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: September 12, 2012

Abstract

To our knowledge, this paper provides the most comprehensive analysis, to date, of the role of leverage, intangible assets, and tax havens in reducing firm-level corporate income taxes. Using publicly available financial statement information for 3,926 public corporations from 62 countries from 2005 to 2009, we find evidence consistent with multinationals lowering their current income tax expense by issuing long-term debt, relying disproportionately on intangibles in their production, and establishing subsidiaries in tax havens. We also find wide cross-country variation in the use of debt and intangibles, but little variation in the use of tax havens. American multinationals appear to use debt more than other countries to lower their taxes. Besides enhancing our knowledge about international taxes, these findings should provide some empirical underpinning for ongoing policy debates about the taxation of multinationals.

Keywords: Tax, Tax Havens, International

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Markle, Kevin and Shackelford, Douglas A., Cross-Country Comparisons of the Effects of Leverage, Intangible Assets, and Tax Havens on Corporate Income Taxes (September 12, 2012). Tax Law Review, Vol. 65, No. 3, 2012, UNC Kenan-Flagler Research Paper No. 2013-25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2161939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
547
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,090
RANK
116,469
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies