Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Globalization: Evaluating the Effectiveness of Country-by-Country Reporting

Employment, Work and Finance Working Paper No. 12-08

18 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2012

Dariusz Wojcik

University of Oxford, St. Peter's College

Date Written: October 18, 2012

Abstract

While the USA and the EU are mandating disclosure of payments to governments by companies in the extractive sector, these measures are a far cry from the original idea of country-by-country reporting. This paper evaluates potential effectiveness of the mandated and full CBCR in terms of policy objectives, the nature of information involved, as well as the behavior of users and disclosers. It argues that the limited scope, depth and status of mandated CBCR inhibit its potential value to investors and other users, and consequently make the change in disclosers’ behavior less likely. Following the lead of the US, and the model of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, the European Commission framed CBCR as designed to help resource-rich countries, ignoring the potential of full CBCR to address broader global governance issues. Although intelligible in its political context, the EC decision cannot be justified on the grounds of pure policy effectiveness.

Keywords: accounting standards, public policy, governance, Europe, resources, corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: P16, D78, M40

Suggested Citation:

Wojcik, Dariusz, Accounting for Globalization: Evaluating the Effectiveness of Country-by-Country Reporting (October 18, 2012). Employment, Work and Finance Working Paper No. 12-08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2163456 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2163456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
S Aaronson
Limited partnership: business, government, civil society, and the public in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)
Public Administration and Development , volume 31 , p. 50 - 63 Posted: 2011
Crossref
G Brady , R Davel , S Ludolph , A Lundgaard , J Spencer , M Walsh
Extractive Activities, Discussion Paper DP/2010/1 prepared for the IASB Posted: 2010-04
R M Bushman , A Smith
Financial accounting information and corporate governance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 32 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 237 - 333 Posted: 2001
Crossref
G L Clark , T Hebb
Why should they care? The role of institutional investors in the market for corporate global responsibility
Environment and Planning A , volume 37 , issue 11 , p. 2015 - 2031 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,049
RANK
138,019
3 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies