Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shining Light on Globalization: The Political Economy of Country-by-Country Reporting

Employment, Work and Finance Working Paper No. 12-07

22 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2012

Dariusz Wojcik

University of Oxford, St. Peter's College

Date Written: October 18, 2012

Abstract

The status of geographical information in corporate financial reporting is very low, with many of the largest multinationals publishing no breakdown of their activities by country. Since 2003 initiatives led by civil society organizations (CSOs), referred to as country-by-country reporting (CBCR), have called for a reform. The paper applies four complementary political economy perspectives (structuralist, realist, constructivist, and institutionalist) to the CBCR debate. It shows that until 2010 users of financial statements supporting CBCR, but suffering from a lack of a strong state-sponsor, encountered insurmountable opposition of preparers, accounting profession and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The global financial crisis, however, destabilized the established power relationships in international accounting, renewing debate on the objectives of accounting, and questioning the legitimacy of the IASB and its standards. This prompted the US and the EU authorities to bypass the IASB and apply limited scope CBCR modeled after the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative. While a milestone in the debate, the very limited application of CBCR highlights the remaining power of the US-EU regulatory condominium, and continued marginalization of the Global South, and users of financial statements, including investors and civil society, in the governance of international accounting.

Keywords: international accounting standards board (IASB), international financial reporting standards (IFRS), country-by-country reporting (CBCR); European Union (EU), global financial crisis (GFC), political economy of accounting

JEL Classification: P16, M40

Suggested Citation:

Wojcik, Dariusz, Shining Light on Globalization: The Political Economy of Country-by-Country Reporting (October 18, 2012). Employment, Work and Finance Working Paper No. 12-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2163449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2163449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
P J Arnold
Global financial crisis: The challenge to accounting research
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , p. 803 - 809 Posted: 2009
Crossref
C R Baker , E M Barbu
Evolution of research on international accounting harmonization: a historical and institutional perspective
Socio-­-Economic Review , volume 5 , p. 603 - 632 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Bengtsson
Repoliticization of accounting standard setting -The IASB, the EU and the global financial crisis
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 22 , p. 567 - 580 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y Biondi , T Suzuki
Socio-­-economic impacts of international accounting standards: an introduction
Socio-­-Economic Review , volume 5 , p. 585 - 602 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,951
RANK
260,475
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies