Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Securities Litigation Risk for Foreign Companies Listed in the U.S.

52 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2012 Last revised: 18 Jun 2014

Beiting Cheng

Harvard University - Harvard Business School

Suraj Srinivasan

Harvard Business School

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

Date Written: June 2014

Abstract

We study securities litigation risk faced by foreign firms listed on U.S. exchanges. We find that U.S. listed foreign companies experience securities class action lawsuits at about half the rate as do U.S. firms with similar levels of ex ante litigation risk. The lower rate appears to be driven partly by higher transaction costs in uncovering and pursuing litigation against foreign firms. However, once a lawsuit triggering event like an accounting restatement, missing management guidance, or a sharp stock price decline occurs, there is no difference in the litigation rates between a foreign and comparable U.S. firm. This suggests that effective enforcement of securities laws is constrained by transaction costs, and the availability of high quality information that reveals potential misconduct is an important determinant of a well-functioning litigation market for foreign firms listed in the U.S.

Keywords: Litigation Risk, Cross Listing, Bonding, 10b-5, Securities Litigation, U.S. Listing, Class Action

JEL Classification: F20, G15, G30, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Beiting and Srinivasan, Suraj and Yu, Gwen, Securities Litigation Risk for Foreign Companies Listed in the U.S. (June 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2163864 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2163864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
C Anilowski , M Feng , D J Skinner
Is guidance a macro factor? The nature and information content of aggregate earnings guidance Posted: 2005
M Baker , J C Stein , J Wurgler
When does the market matter? Stock prices and the investment of equity-dependent firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 969 - 1005 Posted: 2003
Crossref
F Brochet , S Srinivasan
Do shareholders hold independent directors accountable? Evidence from firms subject to securities litigation Posted: 2012
B Badertscher , B Jorgensen , S Katz , W Kinney
Public Equity and Audit Pricing in the Posted: 2013
Load more
18 Citations
Igor Filatotchev , Jonathan Jona , Gilad Livne
Earnings Management in Domestic and Foreign IPOs in the United States: Do Home Country Institutions Matter?
European Accounting Review · 51 Pages · Posted: 3 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 26 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 98
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Clive Lennox , Bing Li
Accounting misstatements following lawsuits against auditors
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 58 Posted: 2014
Crossref
James P. Naughton , Tjomme O. Rusticus , Clare Wang , Ira Yeung
Private Litigation Costs and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from the Morrison Ruling
58 Pages · Posted: 4 May 2014 · Last revised: 6 Feb 2017 · Downloads: 811
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Massimo Massa , Xiaoqiao Wang , Bohui Zhang , Hong Zhang
The Boundaries of Law: Can US Private Enforcement Discipline Foreign Firms?
PBCSF-NIFR Research Paper · 63 Pages · Posted: 7 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 10 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 384
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,032
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,189
RANK
50,124
18 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role of Supplementary Statements with Management Earnings Forecasts

By Amy P. Hutton, Gregory S. Miller, ...

Do Managers Withhold Bad News?

By S.p. Kothari, Susan Shu, ...

The Impact of Securities Litigation Reform on the Disclosure of Forward-Looking Information by High Technology Firms

By Marilyn F. Johnson, Ron Kasznik, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies