Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Which U.S. Market Interactions Affect CEO Pay? Evidence from U.K. Companies

Management Science, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2012

Joseph Gerakos

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College

Joseph D. Piotroski

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Suraj Srinivasan

Harvard Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2012

Abstract

This paper examines how different types of interactions with U.S. markets by non-U.S. firms are associated with higher level of CEO pay, greater emphasis on incentive-based compensation, and smaller pay gap with U.S. firms. Using a sample of CEOs of U.K. firms and using both broad cross-sectional and narrow event-window tests, we find that capital market relationship in the form of an U.S. exchange listing is related to higher U.K. CEO pay; however, the effect is similar when U.K. firms have a listing in any foreign country implying a foreign listing effect not unique to the U.S. Product market relationships measured by the extent of sales in the U.S. by U.K. companies are associated with higher pay, greater use of U.S.-style pay arrangements, and a reduction in the U.S.-U.K. pay gap. The product market effect is incremental to the effect of a U.S. exchange listing, the extent of the firm’s non-U.S. foreign market interactions, and the characteristics of the executive. The U.S-U.K. CEO pay gap reduces in U.K. firms that make U.S. acquisitions. Further, the firm’s use of a U.S. compensation consultant increases the sensitivity of U.K. pay practices to U.S. product market relationships.

Keywords: CEO compensation, international pay, globalization, corporate governance, incentives, cross-listing, United Kingdom

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Gerakos, Joseph and Piotroski, Joseph D. and Srinivasan, Suraj, Which U.S. Market Interactions Affect CEO Pay? Evidence from U.K. Companies (August 2012). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2164714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J Abowd , M Bognanno
International differences in executive and managerial compensation Posted: 1995
Differences and Changes in Wage Structures. The University of , p. 67 - 103
Crossref
G Baker , B Hall
CEO incentives and firm size
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 22 , p. 767 - 798 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L Bebchuk , M J Roe
A theory of path dependence in corporate ownership and governance
Stanford Law Review , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 127 - 170 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Leena Kalliovirta , Tuomas Malinen
Non‐Linearity and Cross‐Country Dependence of Income Inequality
Review of Income and Wealth, Vol. 66, Issue 1, pp. 227-249, 2020 · 23 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andrea Melis , Luigi Rombi
Country‐, Firm‐ and Director‐level Risk and Responsibilities and Independent Director Compensation
Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming · 63 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 142
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ariela Caglio , Claudia Imperatore , Cinthia Valle Ruiz
Tax-Sensitive Institutional Investors and the Design of CEO Compensation Packages
42 Pages · Posted: 19 Aug 2022 · Last revised: 26 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 128
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,159
RANK
53,916
3 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies