Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS on Cross-Border Acquisitions

44 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2012 Last revised: 31 Aug 2014

Henock Louis

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Oktay Urcan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: July 1, 2014

Abstract

We examine whether the 2005 mandatory adoption of IFRS is followed by an increase in cross-border acquisitions into the adopting countries and whether the association is driven by IFRS per se or by concurrent enforcement changes. Using the exogeneity of a firm’s listing status to identify the effect of IFRS, we document a significant increase in cross-border acquisitions of listed targets from the adopting countries. We find no evidence that the IFRS effect is driven by those countries that apparently bundled the IFRS adoption with enforcement changes. The evidence also suggests that the IFRS effect is likely due to the fact that many different countries use a common reporting system, as opposed to improvement in reporting quality at individual firms. In particular, we find that the increase in investment flow into the IFRS adopting countries comes mainly from other adopting countries and is significantly stronger when the increase in reporting uniformity associated with IFRS is higher. We also find no evidence that firms that voluntarily adopted IFRS prior to the mandatory adoption were more likely to become cross-border acquisition targets.

Keywords: IFRS, foreign direct investments, M&A, cross-border acquisitions

JEL Classification: F21, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Louis, Henock and Urcan, Oktay, The Effect of IFRS on Cross-Border Acquisitions (July 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2164995 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2164995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
G Andrade , M Mitchell , E Stafford
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Crossref
P André , P Walton , D Yang
Voluntary adoption of IFRS: A study of determinants for UK unlisted firms Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,299
RANK
30,579
13 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies