Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Cross-Listing and Shareholders’ Wealth

Multinational Finance Journal, 2012, Vol. 16, No. 1/2, pp. 49-86

29 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2012 Last revised: 28 May 2013

Olga Dodd

Auckland University of Technology

Christodoulos Louca

Cyprus University of Technology

Date Written: June 30, 2012

Abstract

This study evaluates the relationship between international cross-listings and shareholders’ wealth across different host markets and across time. For a sample of cross-listings by European companies in the US, in the UK, and within Europe, the findings show that US and UK cross-listings, on average, result in positive cumulative abnormal returns around the announcement of cross-listing. No such evidence exists for the rest of European cross-listings. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) of 2002 affects negatively the wealth benefits of US cross-listings, while wealth creation around UK cross-listings is primarily concentrated in Alternative Investment Market listings rather than Main Market listings. There is no evidence that the introduction of the Euro affects the wealth effects of cross-listings within the Eurozone. Finally, this study provides evidence on the relative importance of alternative theories on the wealth effects of cross-listing, including market segmentation, legal bonding, liquidity, investor recognition, proximity preference, market timing and business strategy theories, after considering the effect of the introduction of the Euro and the adoption of SOX. The results show that significance of the alternative theories varies across host markets and over time.

Keywords: Cross-listing, shareholders’ wealth, Euro, AIM, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

JEL Classification: G15, G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Dodd, Olga and Louca, Christodoulos, International Cross-Listing and Shareholders’ Wealth (June 30, 2012). Multinational Finance Journal, 2012, Vol. 16, No. 1/2, pp. 49-86, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2169675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
G J Alexander , C S Eun , Janakiramanan , S
Asset Pricing and Dual Listing on Foreign Capital Markets: A Note
The Journal of Finance , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 158 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset Pricing and the Bid-Ask Spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Crossref
L Baele
Volatility Spillover Effects in European Equity Markets
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 401 Posted: 2005
Crossref
H K Baker , J R Nofsinger , D G Weaver
International Cross-Listing and Visibility
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 521 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,404
RANK
405,369
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies