Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure: The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Management Forecasts

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-39

70 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2012 Last revised: 8 Oct 2015

Xi Li

London School of Economics; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Holly Yang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2015

Abstract

This study examines the effect of the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on voluntary disclosure. Using a difference-in-difference analysis, we document a significant increase in the likelihood and frequency of management earnings forecasts following mandatory IFRS adoption, consistent with the notion that IFRS adoption alters firms’ disclosure incentives in response to increased capital-market demand. We find the increase to be larger among firms domiciled in code-law countries, suggesting a catching-up effect among firms facing low disclosure incentives pre-adoption. We then propose and test three channels through which IFRS adoption could alter firms’ disclosure incentives: improved earnings quality, increased shareholder demand, and increased analyst demand. We find evidence consistent with all three channels.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, IFRS, Management forecasts, Legal regime, Capital-market demand

JEL Classification: G14, G15, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xi and Yang, Holly, Mandatory Financial Reporting and Voluntary Disclosure: The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Management Forecasts (August 2015). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-39, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2172014 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2172014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does Governance Travel around the World? Evidence from Institutional Investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry Concentration and Corporate Disclosure Policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,398
RANK
13,080
19 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies