Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Usefulness of Income Tax Disclosures Under IFRS versus U.S. GAAP for Predicting Changes in Future Earnings and Cash Flows

46 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2012

T. J. Atwood

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Ying Cao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: November 1, 2012

Abstract

We examine whether income tax disclosures under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are useful for predicting changes in future earnings and cash flows, and whether such disclosures are more or less useful than disclosures made under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). We find that the ranked ratio of taxable income (minus taxes)-to-net income (i.e., the tax-book ranking) is useful for predicting changes in future earnings and cash flows under both IFRS and U.S. GAAP. However, the usefulness of this ratio differs between IFRS firms and U.S. GAAP firms only following the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). This suggests that tax information is more useful for predicting future performance under IFRS than under U.S. GAAP, and that the usefulness of the tax-book ranking for predicting future performance was reduced for firms reporting under U.S. GAAP following the adoption of FIN 48. Finally, our results suggest that tax disclosures are useful for detecting differences in earnings quality across firms reporting under IFRS and U.S. GAAP.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, U.S. GAAP, tax aggressiveness, usefulness of earnings, earnings prediction, future cash flows

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Atwood, T. J. and Cao, Ying and Drake, Michael S. and Myers, Linda A., The Usefulness of Income Tax Disclosures Under IFRS versus U.S. GAAP for Predicting Changes in Future Earnings and Cash Flows (November 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2181069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2181069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
Crossref
______ , J N ______ , L A Myers , Myers
Do earnings reported under IFRS tell us more about future earnings and cash flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 2011
______ , ______ , ______ ______
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,982
RANK
163,015
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies