Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Importing Accounting Quality? The Case of Foreign Reverse Mergers

52 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2012 Last revised: 12 Jan 2014

Dan Givoly

Pennsylvania State University, Smeal College of Business

Carla Hayn

University of California at Los Angeles - Anderson School of Management

Ben Lourie

University of California, Irvine

Date Written: January 1, 2014

Abstract

The recent influx of foreign companies to the U.S. capital markets via reverse mergers, transactions that bypass the scrutiny given to IPOs, has raised concerns about the quality of financial reporting by the resulting firms. Using an array of proxies for reporting quality, we find that the reporting quality of these reverse merger (RM) firms, regardless of country of origin, is lower than that of their domestic industry peers and foreign cross-listed companies. However, the evidence is less conclusive regarding the alleged inferior quality of foreign RM firms relative to that of RM firms originating in the U.S. We also find that important determinants of the inferior reporting quality of RM firms are their lower audit quality and weaker external monitoring by the investing public. With few exceptions, investors appear to recognize this quality differential by tempering their reaction to accounting information reported by RM firms, and discounting these firms’ equity values relative to their non-RM industry peers. The findings have implications for investors, market regulators and auditors. They are also relevant for the discussion on the costs and benefits of harmonizing accounting standards and for the debate on the desirability of capital market stimuli in the form of relaxed reporting and disclosure rules.

Keywords: Reverse Merger, Accounting Quality, Financial Reporting, Accounting Standards

JEL Classification: M40, M41, K22, G5, M14

Suggested Citation:

Givoly, Dan and Hayn, Carla and Lourie, Ben, Importing Accounting Quality? The Case of Foreign Reverse Mergers (January 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2183724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2183724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
F Adjei , K B Cyree , M M Walker
The Determinants and Survival of Reverse Mergers versus IPOs
Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 176 - 194 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an Economically Efficient System of Public Financial Reporting and Disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Paper on Financial Services , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
Crossref
__________
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors
International Accounting Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
S P __________ , J A Kothari , Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
670
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,481
RANK
89,516
16 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Good Apples, Bad Apples: Sorting Among Chinese Companies Traded in the US

By James S. Ang, Zhiqian Jiang, ...

Spillover Effect of Fraud Allegations and Investor Sentiment

By Masako N. Darrough, Rong Huang, ...

The Spillover Effect of Fraud Allegations Against Chinese Reverse Mergers

By Masako N. Darrough

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies