Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption, Corporate Governance, and Accounting Accruals in the UK and Germany

27 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2013 Last revised: 22 Aug 2016

Jian Liang

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Yuan George Shan

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 15, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the impacts of mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and corporate governance on accounting accruals in the UK and Germany. There has been a long debate on whether mandating a single set of high quality accounting standards, i.e. IFRS, leads to higher quality of accounting earnings. Some treat accounting standards as the sole determinant of accounting quality and find higher quality of accounting numbers in IFRS adoption countries; while others show that reporting incentives dominate accounting standards in determining accounting quality. Using hand-collected corporate governance data in companies’ annual reports throughout the sample period 2001-2013, we operationalize reporting incentives by constructing a score that rates the overall effectiveness of a firm’s corporate governance and highlight the following main findings. First, the magnitude of discretionary accruals in our sample has not changed since the 2005 mandatory IFRS adoption; meanwhile, the volatility of accrual residuals estimated by Dechow and Dichev (2002) model has become larger in IFRS adoption period, suggesting lower quality of IFRS accounting numbers. Second, firms with better corporate governance and therefore less earnings management incentive are associated with higher accounting quality, i.e. smaller sizes of discretionary accruals and lower volatilities of accrual residuals. Our results are in line with Ball et al. (2003), suggesting that incentives act as a deciding factor in improving accounting quality.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Incentives and Corporate Governance, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Jian and Shan, Yuan George, Mandatory IFRS Adoption, Corporate Governance, and Accounting Accruals in the UK and Germany (August 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2190329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2190329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,429
RANK
140,530
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies