Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of the Accelerated Deadline on Form 20-F Filing Lags Among U.S.- Listed Foreign Firms

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2012/17

Posted: 19 Dec 2012 Last revised: 14 Jul 2016

Kam C. Chan

Pace University

Samir M. El-Gazzar

Independent

Rudolph A. Jacob

Pace University - Department of Accounting

Picheng Lee

Pace University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 18, 2012

Abstract

The primary objectives of this research are to investigate the impact of the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) accelerated deadline on foreign firms’ 20-F filing practices and factors relating to the filing lags. Based on a sample of 338 U.S.-listed foreign firms, our results indicate that there is a significant reduction in the filing lags and a change in their distribution for fiscal year 2011, as compared to the preceding year, and as intended by the SEC. We also find that 20-F filing lags are negatively related to the use of IFRS or U.S.-GAAP in 20-F reports and the use of English language in foreign firms’ home countries. Finally, we find a significant negative relationship between 20-F filing lags and foreign countries’ legal strength for fiscal year 2010. Consistent with the ineffective bonding results in prior studies, our results also reveal that the new accelerated filing deadline has not strengthened the bonding effect significantly for fiscal year 2011.

Keywords: SEC, accelerated deadline, 20-F, foreign firms, IFRS, bonding

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Kam C. and El-Gazzar, Samir M. and Jacob, Rudolph A. and Lee, Picheng, The Effects of the Accelerated Deadline on Form 20-F Filing Lags Among U.S.- Listed Foreign Firms (December 18, 2012). Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2012/17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2191035
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
950
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies