Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Which Does More to Determine the Quality of Corporate Governance in Emerging Economies, Firms or Countries?

Harvard Business School Strategy Unit Working Paper No. 13-055

54 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2012 Last revised: 28 Jun 2014

Andrea Hugill

Harvard Business School

Jordan I. Siegel

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Corporate Strategy and International Business

Date Written: June 26, 2014

Abstract

Scholars of corporate governance have debated the relative importance of country and firm characteristics in understanding corporate governance variation across emerging economies. Using panel data and a number of model specifications, we shed new light on this debate. We find that firm characteristics are as important as and often meaningfully more important than country characteristics in explaining governance ratings variance. These results suggest that over recent years firms in emerging economies had more capability to rise above home-country peer firms in corporate governance ratings than has been previously suggested. In fact, 16.8% percent of firms in emerging economies have been able to exceed the 75th percentile of corporate governance ratings in developed economies and 45.5% of firms in emerging economies have been able to exceed the 50th percentile of corporate governance ratings in developed economies.

Suggested Citation:

Hugill, Andrea and Siegel, Jordan I., Which Does More to Determine the Quality of Corporate Governance in Emerging Economies, Firms or Countries? (June 26, 2014). Harvard Business School Strategy Unit Working Paper No. 13-055, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2192460 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2192460
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
5 Citations
Joel Malen , Paul M. Vaaler
Organizational Slack, National Institutions, and Innovation Effort
Minnesota Legal Studies Research Paper No. 16-05 · 41 Pages · Posted: 12 Feb 2016 · Last revised: 16 Feb 2016 · Downloads: 96
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thomas O'Connor , Julie Byrne
Governance and the corporate life-cycle
International Journal of Managerial Finance , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 23 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Thomas O'Connor , Julie Byrne
Governance and the Corporate Life-Cycle
25 Pages · Posted: 18 Dec 2013 · Downloads: 423
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohamed Toukabri
Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) power and sustainability-based compensation for climate change disclosure and carbon performance: is it different for developed and developing nations?
Society and Business Review , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 52 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,350
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,105
RANK
33,916
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Strategy Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies