Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of a Voluntary Turn Away from IFRS to Local GAAP: Evidence from Switzerland

European Accounting Review Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2012 Last revised: 22 Aug 2017

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Jérôme Halberkann

University of Zurich - Institute for Business Administration

Conrad Meyer

University of Zurich - Institute for Accounting and Control

Date Written: December 21, 2012

Abstract

We examine determinants and consequences of a turn away from IFRS to local GAAP, thereby exploiting a unique feature of the Swiss setting in which listed firms are allowed to switch from IFRS to Swiss GAAP, all else being equal. We posit that net benefits of IFRS are less for small firms with higher insider ownership. In addition, we predict that the net benefits of IFRS are not constant over time because of changes in IFRS and/or changes in firm-specific circumstances. To the extent that the switching firms’ costs of IFRS reporting outweigh its benefits, we do not predict adverse capital-market effects after a switch. Consistent with predictions, we find that (a) small firms with higher insider ownership and fewer foreign investor holdings are more likely to switch, (b) increasing reporting costs as well as changes in firm-specific circumstances affect switching propensity, (c) switching firms substantially reduce their disclosures after they switch, and (d) switching firms neither experience a decrease in liquidity nor negative announcement returns. Overall, our findings are important for standard setters and securities regulators in shaping (future) reporting requirements for listed firms.

Keywords: IFRS, small and mid-cap companies, ownership structure, Swiss GAAP, reporting costs and benefits

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter and Halberkann, Jérôme and Meyer, Conrad, Determinants and Consequences of a Voluntary Turn Away from IFRS to Local GAAP: Evidence from Switzerland (December 21, 2012). European Accounting Review Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2192523 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2192523
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
M E Barth , D Israeli
Disentangling mandatory IFRS reporting and changes in enforcement
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 178 - 188 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B G Berger , R N Hann
Segment Profitability and the Proprietary and Agency Costs of Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 906 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H B Christensen , L Hail , C Leuz
Mandatory IFRS Reporting and Changes in Enforcement
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 147 - 177 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H B Christensen , E Lee , M Walker , C Zheng
Incentives or Standards: What Determines Accounting Quality Changes around IFRS Adoption?
European Accounting Review , volume 24 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
793
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,942
RANK
71,891
8 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies