Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Conditional Conservatism on Ownership Dispersion: An International Analysis

Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2012

Begoña Giner

University of Valencia

Ahmed Tahoun

London Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: December 25, 2012

Abstract

We study the influence of conditional accounting conservatism on domestic investor diversification decisions. We argue that a conservative accounting system that promotes the dissemination of bad news and which constrains managers from engaging in opportunistic activities reduces the need for investors to concentrate their ownership, and consequently helps investors to diversify their investments. Through a country-level analysis we show that increased domestic conditional conservatism and higher domestic diversification opportunities lead to higher levels of domestic ownership diversification. Our results are robust to alternative estimates of conditional conservatism, and indicate that conditionally conservative accounting systems improve risk sharing. These results suggest that the accounting system, and in particular accounting conservatism, is part of the institutional settings embedded in the infrastructures of capital markets.

Keywords: Conditional conservatism, Asymmetric reporting, Ownership diversification, Diversification opportunities, Governance and information problems

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Giner Inchausti, Begoña and Tahoun, Ahmed and Walker, Martin, The Influence of Conditional Conservatism on Ownership Dispersion: An International Analysis (December 25, 2012). Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2193798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer , J Zechner
Large shareholder activism, risk sharing, and financial market equilibrium
Journal of Political Economy , volume 102 , p. 1097 - 1130 Posted: 1994
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Evidence on the role of accounting conservatism in corporate governance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Evidence on the role of accounting conservatism in monitoring managers' investment decisions
Accounting and Finance , volume 51 , p. 609 - 633 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 182 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,958
RANK
280,691
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies