Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Greek Sovereign Debt Crisis on European Banks’ Disclosure and its Economic Consequences

The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. (51), No. (1), 2016

44 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2013 Last revised: 29 Jun 2016

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Jie Zhou

University of Zurich

Abstract

Using a sample of European banks, this paper examines the link between disclosure and its economic consequences. We exploit an exogenous cost of capital shock created by the Greek Sovereign Debt Crisis and analyze banks’ disclosure responses to this shock. First, we find that European banks increase the length of their annual reports from 2009 to 2011, in particular the risk reporting. The increase in risk disclosure is mainly attributable to enhanced disclosure on credit risk including information about any direct exposure to the European Sovereign Debt Crisis. Our cross-sectional results show that the increase in length of either the annual report or the risk report is positively associated with the bank-specific cost of capital shock. Second, we find that the increase in risk disclosure mitigates the cost of capital shock; whereas the increase in the length of the annual report does not help reducing the cost of capital.

Keywords: Greek sovereign debt crisis, disclosure, cost of capital, European banks, risk information

JEL Classification: G14, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter and Zhou, Jie, The Impact of the Greek Sovereign Debt Crisis on European Banks’ Disclosure and its Economic Consequences. The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. (51), No. (1), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2195013 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2195013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
C A Botosan
Disclosure level and the cost of capital
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 350 Posted: 1997
C Botosan , M Plumlee
A re-examination of disclosure level and the expected cost of equity capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 21 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M Brenner
The effect of model misspecification on tests of the efficient market hypothesis
Journal of Finance , volume 32 , p. 57 - 66 Posted: 1977
Crossref
J M Clinebell , J R Squires , J L Stevens
Investment performance over bull and bear markets: Fabozzi and Francis revisited
Quarterly Journal of Business and Economics , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 14 - 25 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,544
RANK
181,383
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies