Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of a Mixed Approach toward Management Earnings Forecasts: Evidence from China

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting.2018, 45 (3): 319-351

55 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2013 Last revised: 24 Mar 2019

Xiaobei Huang

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - Business School

Xi Li

London School of Economics; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Senyo Y. Tse

Texas A&M University - Lowry Mays College & Graduate School of Business

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Date Written: December 10, 2017

Abstract

Chinese regulators mandate management earnings forecasts when managers’ earnings expectations meet bright-line thresholds and allow voluntary forecasts in other circumstances. We examine the effects of this mixed approach. We find that Chinese mandatory forecasts have significant information content. Moreover, we observe a learning effect: mandatory forecasts appear to stimulate voluntary forecasts in subsequent periods as managers become familiar with the forecasting and disclosing procedures through forced experience. We find one negative consequence of the mixed approach, however: managers appear to manipulate earnings to avoid the forecast threshold of large earnings decreases. Overall, we document the pros and cons of a mixed approach toward management earnings forecasts in a major emerging market.

Keywords: management earnings forecast, forecast mandate, voluntary disclosure, China

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Xiaobei and Li, Xi and Tse, Senyo Y. and Tucker, Jennifer, The Effects of a Mixed Approach toward Management Earnings Forecasts: Evidence from China (December 10, 2017). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting.2018, 45 (3): 319-351, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2196425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2196425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Anderson
Modern methods for robust regression Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Beyer , D Cohen , T Lys , B Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Bloomberg
China overtakes Japan as world's second biggest stock market. Bloomberg News Posted: 2014-11-27
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
692
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,545
RANK
85,929
11 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies