Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects on Comparability and Capital Market Benefits of Voluntary IFRS Adoption

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 133

54 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2013 Last revised: 11 Jan 2018

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Christopher D. Williams

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: January 11, 2018

Abstract

This study addresses whether voluntary IFRS adoption is associated with increased comparability of accounting amounts and capital market benefits. We find that after firms voluntarily adopt IFRS (“adopting” firms), their accounting amounts are more comparable to those of firms that previously adopted IFRS (“adopted” firms) and less comparable to those of firms that apply domestic standards (“non-adopting” firms). Adopting firms exhibit increased liquidity, share turnover, and firm-specific information relative to adopted and non-adopting firms. Neither adopted nor non-adopting firms suffer capital market consequences. Adopting firms with higher comparability with adopted firms have greater capital market benefits after adopting IFRS than adopting firms with lower comparability, and capital market benefits for adopting firms in countries with a relatively high percentage of firms that apply IFRS enjoy greater capital market benefits.

Keywords: Comparability, IFRS, Liquidity, Synchronicity, Trading Volume, Voluntary IFRS Adoption

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E. and Landsman, Wayne R. and Lang, Mark H. and Williams, Christopher D., Effects on Comparability and Capital Market Benefits of Voluntary IFRS Adoption (January 11, 2018). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 133, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2196247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2196247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction Terms in Logit and Probit Models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Amiram
Financial Information Globalization and Foreign Investment Decisions
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 11 , p. 57 - 81 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
23 Citations
Jenice J. Prather-Kinsey , Paul Tanyi
The Market Reaction to SEC IFRS-Related Announcements: The Case of American Depository Receipt (ADR) Firms in the U.S.
Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming · 47 Pages · Posted: 3 Apr 2014 · Downloads: 279
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Heein Yi , Sangsoo Kim , Seunghun Han
Choice between Acquisition and Joint Venture Based on Financial Statement Comparability
Sustainability , volume 13 , issue 11 , p. 6218 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Ngoc Nguyen , Ngoc Nguyen
Determinants of Voluntary International Financial Reporting Standards Application: Review from Theory to Empirical Research
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 16 , issue 11 , p. 485 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Yong-Shik Kim , Sun A Kang , Sang-Hun Park
The effect of management style on financial statement comparability: evidence from Korean business groups
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 454 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,899
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,358
RANK
20,252
23 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Targets' Earnings Quality and Bidders' Takeover Decisions

By Kartik Raman, Lakshmanan Shivakumar, ...

Target Firm-Specific Information and Acquisition Efficiency

By Xiumin Martin and Ron Shalev

Target’s Earnings Quality and Bidders’ Takeover Decisions

By Kartik Raman, Lakshmanan Shivakumar, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies