Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalization and Corporate Taxation

IMF Working Paper No. 12/252

51 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2013

Manmohan Kumar

International Monetary Fund (IMF) - Research Department

Dennis P. Quinn

Georgetown University - Department of Strategy/Economics/Ethics/Public Policy

Date Written: October 2012

Abstract

This paper analyzes the extent to which the degree of international economic integration, both financial and trade, affects corporate tax rates. It explores this issue in the context of strategic behavior by countries, taking into account other global and domestic political economy factors. Tax rates are analyzed using a unique tax dataset for advanced and developing economies extending over five decades. We report a number of novel results: there is no general negative relationship between financial globalization and corporate tax rates and revenues - results vary according to country grouping with OECD countries showing a positive relationship; the United States exhibits a “Stackelberg” type of leadership on other countries; trade integration is inversely correlated with tax rates; and public sentiment and ideology affect tax rates. The policy implications of these findings, particularly given budgetary pressures in the aftermath of the global crisis, are noted.

Keywords: Globalization, Economic integration, Trade integration, Corporate taxes, Tax revenues, Tax rates, Economic models, Corporate tax rates, Tax revenues, Globalization, Strategic behavior

JEL Classification: F02, F41, F59, H25

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Manmohan and Quinn, Dennis P., Globalization and Corporate Taxation (October 2012). IMF Working Paper No. 12/252, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2199297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
Joshua Aizenman , Yothin Jinjarak
Globalization and Developing Countries: A Shrinking Tax Base?
Journal of Development Studies , volume 45 , issue 5 , p. 653 - 671 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Roberta Altshuler , T J Goodspeed
Follow the leader? Evidence on European and U.S. tax competition', Working paper Posted: 2002
Crossref
A J Auerbach , M P Devereux , H Simpson
Posted: 2007
Crossref
Alan J Auerbach , Kevin A Hassett
A New Measure of Horizontal Equity
American Economic Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 1116 - 1141 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,816
RANK
481,321
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies