Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Comparability and the Accuracy of Peer-Based Valuation Models

Accounting Review, November 2015, Vol. 90, No. 6, pp. 2571-2601

Posted: 24 Jan 2013 Last revised: 22 Feb 2017

Steven Young

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yachang Zeng

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 14, 2015

Abstract

We examine the link between enhanced accounting comparability and the valuation performance of pricing multiples. Using the warranted multiple method proposed by Bhojraj and Lee (2002), we demonstrate how enhanced accounting comparability leads to better peer-based valuation performance. Empirical tests using firms from 15 European Union (EU ) countries over the period 1997–2011 (with comparable peers selected from the entire cross-section of foreign firms) document significant improvement in valuation performance measured as pricing accuracy, the ability of value estimates to explain cross-sectional variation in observed price, and the ability of the pricing multiple to predict future market-to-book multiples. Findings for a series of identification tests suggest that enhanced valuation performance is the consequence of improvements in the degree of cross-border accounting comparability that occurred during the sample window, and that a significant fraction of the comparability gain operates through improved peer selection.

Keywords: Equity valuation, pricing multiples, warranted multiple, peer selection, international accounting convergence

JEL Classification: G14, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Young, Steven and Zeng, Yachang, Accounting Comparability and the Accuracy of Peer-Based Valuation Models (October 14, 2015). Accounting Review, November 2015, Vol. 90, No. 6, pp. 2571-2601, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2206190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2206190
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,538
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies