Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Comparability of Company Accounts Conditionally

16 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2013

Ross Taplin

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Date Written: November 27, 2012

Abstract

Comparability indices summarise the level of comparability between companies at a national and international level, an issue of importance to investors, regulators and standard setters. Comparability indices can identify areas where comparability is low and where comparability is deteriorating. Furthermore, they can be used to quantify the extent to which initiatives such as International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are successful in raising comparability between company accounts. Despite past literature emphasizing how factors other than country influence accounting methods used by companies, current comparability indices ignore these. This paper introduces new national and international indices within the T index framework to fill this gap in the literature. Formula for the new national and international indices, and their standard errors, are provided. An example using European data is used to demonstrate the calculations and illustrate the importance of controlling for these firm specific factors.

Keywords: harmonisation, comparability, T index, industry sector

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Taplin, Ross, Measuring the Comparability of Company Accounts Conditionally (November 27, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2210722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2210722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
S Aisbitt
Measurement of harmony of financial reporting within and between countries: the case of the Nordic countries
European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 72 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Archer , S Mcleay
On measuring the harmonization on accounting practices Posted: 1995
S Archer , P Delvaille , S Mcleay
The measurement of harmonization and the comparability of financial statement items: within-country and between-country effects. Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , p. 67 - 80 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S Archer , P Delvaille , S Mcleay
A statistical model of international accounting harmonization
Abacus , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,136
RANK
151,925
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies