Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Fair Value versus Historical Cost Reporting Model on Analyst Forecast Accuracy

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2013 Last revised: 19 Dec 2013

Lihong Liang

Syracuse University

Eddie Riedl

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines how the reporting model for a firm’s operating assets affects analyst forecast accuracy. We contrast UK and US investment property firms having real estate as their primary operating asset, exploiting that UK (US) firms report these assets at fair value (historical cost). We assess the accuracy of a balance sheet-based forecast (net asset value, or NAV) and an income statement-based forecast (earnings-per-share, or EPS). We predict and find higher NAV forecast accuracy for UK relative to US firms, consistent with the fair value reporting model revealing private information that is incorporated into analysts’ balance sheet forecasts. We find this difference is attenuated when the fair value and historical cost models are more likely to converge: during recessionary periods. Finally, we predict and find lower EPS forecast accuracy for UK firms when reporting under the full fair value model of IFRS, in which unrealized fair value gains and losses are included in net income. This is consistent with the full fair value model increasing the difficulty of forecasting net income through the inclusion of non-serially correlated elements such as these gains/losses. Information content analyses provide further support for these inferences. Overall, the results indicate that the fair value reporting model enhances analysts’ ability to forecast the balance sheet, but the full fair value model reduces their ability to forecast net income.

Keywords: fair value, historical cost, analyst forecast accuracy, net asset value, real estate

JEL Classification: M4, L85

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Lihong and Riedl, Edward J., The Effect of Fair Value versus Historical Cost Reporting Model on Analyst Forecast Accuracy (December 1, 2013). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2210056 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2210056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Accounting for Investment Properties. London: Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Posted: 1994
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B Baik , B Billings , R Morton
Reliability and transparency of non-GAAP disclosures by real estate investment trusts (REITS)
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Barth
Fair value accounting: evidence from investment securities and the market valuation of banks
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994-01
Load more
13 Citations
Jumoke Olamide Jayeoba , Jerry Danjuma Kwarbai
Value of Accounting Numbers and Analysts’ Forecast Errors
International Journal of Research & Methodology in Social Science, Vol. 2, No. 3, p.17 (Jul – Sep, 2016), · 20 Pages · Posted: 8 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Phillip T. Lamoreaux , Nathan J. Newton , Landon M. Mauler
Audit Regulation and the Cost of Equity Capital: Evidence From the PCAOB’s International Inspection Regime
52 Pages · Posted: 6 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 206
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mary Jo Brooks Hunter , Xiaoxiao Song
Analysts’ IFRS Knowledge, Forecast Error, and Sec’S Elimination of the 20-F Reconciliation
Accounting & Taxation Vol. 13, No. 1, 2021, pp. 1-14 · 14 Pages · Posted: 8 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 56
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Paul E. Fischer , David Haushalter , Brian P. Miller , Kevin Pisciotta
Why are Reported Fair Values Sticky?
60 Pages · Posted: 4 Sep 2021 · Last revised: 20 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 211
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,392
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,157
RANK
32,442
13 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies