Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Country- and Firm-Level Governance on Financial Reporting Quality: Revisiting the Evidence

CIRANO - Scientific Publications 2013s-03

Posted: 5 Feb 2013

Pietro Bonetti

University of Padova

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Michel Magnan

Concordia University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 31, 2013

Abstract

Using a large sample of European firms that mandatorily adopted IFRS, this paper assesses how firm-level governance, as proxied by board attributes, and country-level enforcement interplay in affecting financial reporting quality. Financial reporting quality is assumed to have three dimensions: earnings informativeness, accruals management, and real earnings management. Three key findings emerge from our analyses. First, IFRS adoption per se does not seem to affect financial reporting quality. Second, in countries characterized by weak enforcement, strong board-level monitoring appears to enhance financial reporting quality, thus suggesting a substitutive effect between firm- and country-level governance. Third, in countries characterized by strong enforcement, firms with strong board-level monitoring exhibit a higher level of financial reporting quality than firms with weak board-level monitoring, thus suggesting that country- and firm-level governance are complementary. Overall, our findings help bridge the gap in the debate about the effects of country- and firm-level governance on the quality of financial reporting and provide further nuance on prior IFRS adoption research.

Keywords: IFRS, corporate governance, legal enforcement, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G18, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bonetti, Pietro and Parbonetti, Antonio and Magnan, Michel, The Influence of Country- and Firm-Level Governance on Financial Reporting Quality: Revisiting the Evidence (January 31, 2013). CIRANO - Scientific Publications 2013s-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2212200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2212200
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,912
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies