Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Uncertainty and Dividend Policy: Evidence from International Political Crises

Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming

68 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2013 Last revised: 16 Jan 2015

Tao Huang

Beijing Normal University-Hong Kong Baptist University United International College

Fei Wu

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Jin Yu

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 15, 2015

Abstract

We examine the impact of political uncertainty on firms' payout policy. Using a large international sample across 35 countries over the period from year 1990 to 2008, we find that past dividend payers are more likely to terminate dividends and that non-payers are less likely to initiate dividends during periods of high political uncertainty. These findings suggest a precautionary incentive of managers in response to political shocks. Nevertheless, the impact of political shocks seems to be attenuated by stable political systems. In addition to identifying this precautionary incentive, we also document that firms with lower market valuation or less liquidity are more likely to initiate dividends during periods of high political uncertainty, which is consistent with the catering theory of dividends.

Keywords: Political crisis, Dividend policy, Political uncertaincy

JEL Classification: G15, G35

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Tao and Wu, Fei and Yu, Jin and Zhang, Bohui, Political Uncertainty and Dividend Policy: Evidence from International Political Crises (January 15, 2015). Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2212481 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2212481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
T Agmon , D R Lessard
Investor recognition of corporate international diversification
The Journal of Finance , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 1049 - 1055 Posted: 1977
Crossref
L Alfaro , S Kalemli-Ozcan , V Volosovych
Why doesn't capital flow from rich to poor countries? An empirical investigation
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 90 , issue 2 , p. 347 - 368 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Y Amihud , K Li
The declining information content of dividend announcements and the effects of institutional holdings
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 637 - 660 Posted: 2006
Crossref
O E Barron , O Kim , S C Lim , D E Stevens
Using analysts' forecasts to measure properties of analysts' information environment
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
610
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,592
RANK
70,313
32 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Political Cycles and the Stock Market

By Pedro Santa-clara and Rossen I. Valkanov

Tax Changes and Asset Pricing: Time-Series Evidence

By Clemens Sialm

Uncertainty about Government Policy and Stock Prices

By Lubos Pastor and Pietro Veronesi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies