Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure Practices by Foreign Firms Cross-Listed in the United States

Forthcoming, Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2213276

47 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2013

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Joung W. Kim

Nova Southeastern University; Nova Southeastern University - H. Wayne Huizenga School of Business & Entrepreneurship

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 7, 2013

Abstract

This is one of the first large-scale studies to examine the voluntary disclosure practices of foreign firms cross-listed in the United States. We proxy for voluntary disclosure using three attributes of firms’ management earnings guidance: (1) the likelihood of issuance; (2) the frequency of earnings guidance; and (3) a guidance quality measure. After first establishing that market participants view these firms’ disclosures as credible and economically important (i.e., the disclosures are negatively related to analyst forecast errors and the implied cost of equity capital), we compare cross-listed firms’ disclosure practices with comparable U.S. firms and explore variations in disclosure practices among cross-listed firms. We find that cross-listed firms issue less frequent and lower quality management earnings guidance than comparable U.S. firms. We further show that the gap between U.S. and cross-listed firms widened after passage of Regulation FD, a regulation which induced greater public disclosure of firm-specific information. Focusing on the sample of cross-listing firms, we show that firms from common-law countries disclose more than firms from code-law countries. Finally, our results indicate that cross-listed firms that do not list on an organized U.S. exchange provide more frequent and higher quality disclosure than those that do list on organized exchanges.

Keywords: Cross-listing, Voluntary Disclosure, Legal Quality, Reg FD, Exchange Listing

JEL Classification: F30, F23, F21, G15, G30, K00, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Kang, Tony and Kim, Joung W. and Kim, Joung W., Voluntary Disclosure Practices by Foreign Firms Cross-Listed in the United States (February 7, 2013). Forthcoming, Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2213276, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2213276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
A Moel
The role of information disclosure on stock market listing decisions: The case of foreign firms listing in the U.S., working paper Posted: 1999
W A Reese , M S Weisbach
Protection of minority shareholders' interests, cross-listings in the United States, and subsequent equity offerings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 66 , p. 65 - 104 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J L Rogers , A Van Buskirk
Shareholder litigation and changes in disclosure behavior
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 47 , p. 136 - 156 Posted: 2009
Crossref
P R Rosenbaum , D R Rubin
The central role of the propensity score in observational studies for causal effects
Biometrika , volume 70 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 55 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Brant E. Christensen , Lijun Lei , Sydney Qing Shu , Wayne B. Thomas
Does Audit Regulation Improve the Underlying Information Used by Managers? Evidence from PCAOB Inspection Access and Management Forecast Accuracy
Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming · 56 Pages · Posted: 20 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 15 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 318
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Omar A. Esqueda , Thomas O'Connor
Corporate Governance and Lifecycles in Emerging Markets
Research in International Business and Finance (Forthcoming) · 44 Pages · Posted: 13 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 71
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tatiana King , Yulia Aray
Enhancing CSR Disclosure through Foreign Ownership, Foreign Board Members, and Cross-Listing: Does It Work in Russian Context?
Emerging Markets Review, Forthcoming · 36 Pages · Posted: 20 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 112
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jiyoung Park , Jiyoon Lee , Jewon Shin
Corporate Governance, Compensation Mechanisms, and Voluntary Disclosure of Carbon Emissions: Evidence from Korea
36 Pages · Posted: 11 May 2022 · Last revised: 23 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 381
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,320
RANK
38,851
5 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies