Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship-Specificity, Contract Enforceability, and Income Smoothing

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2213827

52 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2013

Yiwei Dou

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: February 8, 2013

Abstract

Contracting parties, such as the firm and its supplier, have cost-reducing incentives to make investments which support the unique transactions between them. However, to the extent that one party may renege on its contractual obligations, the other party incurring the cost of the relationship-specific investment bears additional risk and is less willing to invest such that sub-optimal investment occurs. In countries where enforceability of explicit contracts is particularly weak, parties have incentives to signal their willingness to fulfill implicit claims and maintain long-term relationships. We predict that firms engage in income smoothing to send such a signal to their suppliers. Consistent with these expectations, we find that firms that both reside in countries with weak contract enforceability and operate in industries with a greater need for relationship-specific investments tend to smooth reported income more. We further decompose income smoothing into “informational” and “garbled” components and find that results are driven by the informational component of income smoothing. Our results support the important role that accruals play in providing information in the presence of incomplete contracts.

Keywords: Income Smoothing, Informational Component, Relationship-Specific Investments, Contract Enforceability, Legal Protection, International

JEL Classification: F14, F30, G30, K12, L14, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Dou, Yiwei and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Thomas, Wayne B., Relationship-Specificity, Contract Enforceability, and Income Smoothing (February 8, 2013). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2213827, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2213827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , T Mitton
Determinants of vertical integration: financial development and contracting costs
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 3 , p. 1251 - 1290 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Alchian , S Woodward
Reflections on the theory of the firm
Journal of Institutional and Theoretical Economics , volume 143 , p. 110 - 136 Posted: 1987
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
E Anderson , B Weitz
The use of pledges to build and sustain commitment in distribution channels
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 34 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
601
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,501
RANK
28,594
43 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Does the Stock Market Harm Investment Incentives?

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Comparing the Investment Behavior of Public and Private Firms

By John Asker, Joan Farre-mensa, ...

Does Public Ownership of Equity Improve Earnings Quality?

By Dan Givoly, Carla Hayn, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies