Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Corporate Governance Mechanisms Impact on Earnings Quality? Evidence from IFRS Adoption in European Union

2013 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

Posted: 12 Feb 2013 Last revised: 1 Apr 2013

Jian Liang

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Yuan George Shan

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 21, 2013

Abstract

This study primarily explores the impact of International Financial Reporting Standards mandatory adoption on accruals quality in the United Kingdom and Germany from 2001 to 2009. Besides accounting standard, we argue that the effectiveness of corporate governance mechanisms could be used as a proxy for preparer incentive in financial reporting and therefore should be recognised as a determinant of accruals quality. This study operationalizes preparer incentive using a self-constructed corporate governance score (CGS) which measures the effectiveness of adopted corporate governance mechanisms on firm level. We examine the joint impact of accounting standard and preparer incentive on accruals quality using a stepwise method. Our results suggest that IFRS alone generally improves accruals quality in the post-adoption period. Furthermore, IFRS and effective governance mechanisms are substitutes in improving accruals quality in shareholder-oriented economy, whereas they are partial complements in stakeholder-oriented economy. The contribution is threefold. First, it provides evidence to the debate of accounting standard versus preparer incentive on accounting quality as initiated in Ball et al. (2003) by conducting a joint test of the two determinants for accruals quality. Second, we construct CGS based on manually collected data and follow Jones et al.’s (2008) suggestion to incorporate it in the modified Dechow and Dichev (2002) model to improve its explanatory power. Third, we investigate the role of preparer incentive in accruals quality under different legal/accounting settings.

Our findings are of particular importance to accounting standard setters. The empirical evidence documented in this study can facilitate standard setter’s policy-making regarding the controversy about whether adopting high quality accounting standard is sufficient to improve financial reporting quality.

Keywords: earnings quality, incentives and corporate governance, international financial reporting standards (IFRS)

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Jian and Shan, Yuan George, Do Corporate Governance Mechanisms Impact on Earnings Quality? Evidence from IFRS Adoption in European Union (March 21, 2013). 2013 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2215424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2215424
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,781
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies