Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants Influencing the IFRS Accounting Policy Choices of European Listed Companies

27 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2013

Vicky Cole

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Joël Branson

Vrije Universiteit Brussel VUB

Diane Breesch

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Date Written: February 14, 2013

Abstract

In this paper we investigated whether or not European listed companies make use of the options offered by the IFRS and if so, which determinants influence these choices and how this affects the de facto comparability of European IFRS financial statements. We analysed the choices of 197 companies from Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK operating in the industries industrial goods and services, financials or technology. We investigated the effect of country, industry, company size, capital structure and the type of auditor on 31 options offered within the IFRS. We found that nine options are rarely used differently. Most options (22 out of 31), however, are used differently. The accounting choices are predominantly influenced by the country of origin, followed by industry and type of auditor. Company size and capital structure do not seem to play an important role. Overall, we found that the European IFRS financial statements are not de facto comparable yet. The contribution of the study is threefold: we identify the options that are not or rarely used and thus could be removed in order to simplify the IFRS, we offer insight into the determinants affecting accounting policy choices made by companies, and we mitigate the idea of de facto comparability of European IFRS financial statements.

Keywords: IFRS, accounting policy choices, European companies

Suggested Citation:

Cole, Vicky and Branson, Joël and Breesch, Diane, Determinants Influencing the IFRS Accounting Policy Choices of European Listed Companies (February 14, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2217498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2217498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Aledo Martínez , J García-Martínez , F &amp; Marín Diazaraque , J M
Firm-Specific Factors Influencing the Selection of Accounting Options Provided by the IFRS: Empirical Evidence from Spanish Market Posted: 2009
D C Burghstahler , L Hail , C Leuz
The Importance of Reporting Incentives: Earnings Management in European Private and Public Firms
Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 983 - 1016 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Cairns , D Massoudi , R Taplin , A Tarca
IFRS fair value measurement and accounting policy choice in the United Kingdom and Australia
The British Accounting Review , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Cascino , J ; Gassen , Ssrn , S Chanchani , R Willett
An empirical assessment of Gray's accounting value constructs
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 125 - 154 Posted: 2004
Load more
2 Citations
Azrul Abdullah , Ku Nor Izah Ku Ismail
Company-Specific Characteristics and the Choice of Hedge Accounting for Derivatives Reporting: Malaysian Case
Abdullah, A., & Ismail, K. N. I. K. (2017). Company-Specific Characteristics and the Choice of Hedge Accounting for Derivatives Reporting: Malaysian Case. International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, 13(3), 280-292. DOI: 10.1504/IJAAPE.2017.085183 · 20 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2018 · Downloads: 122
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christian Kretzmann , Torben Teuteberg , Henning Zülch
Comparability of reported cash flows under IFRS - Evidence from Germany
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 906 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
651
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,102
RANK
93,127
2 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies