Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolution of the Management Discussion Content in the Financial Report: A Comparison between Italy and the UK

30 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2013 Last revised: 21 Feb 2013

Monica Veneziani

University of Brescia - Department of Accounting

Cristian Carini

University of Brescia

Giulia Bendotti

University of Brescia

Claudio Teodori

Independent

Date Written: March 30, 2010

Abstract

Recently, the socio-economic environment in which companies operate has changed considerably. Three events in particular have affected the management of listed companies: (i) the increasing importance of the intangible assets as basic elements of the competitive advantage in business; (ii) introduction of the IFRS; (iii) the world financial crisis. In this worldwide context, regulators view narrative disclosures as the key to achieving the desired step-change in the quality of corporate reporting. To satisfy the new stakeholder information needs, business reporting has to expand beyond the traditional financial reporting model towards more forward-looking information of a non-financial nature. The paper wants to study the quantity of financial communication in the management discussion for each information category selected and its quality in terms of: time orientation (historical information, forward-looking information, intertemporal information), nature (financial, non-financial) and mode of expression (narrative, quantitative, mixed). The analysis is performed considering the pre-IFRS (2003) and post-IFRS (2008) financial reports in Italy and the UK. Content analysis is the method applied. One of the main results that emerges, for both the Italian and UK companies, is that the quantity of information increases and that this information is always mainly related to the business and it is non-financial, narrative and historical. Very little space is dedicated to forward-looking information.

Keywords: MD&A, Disclosure, Evolution

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Veneziani, Monica and Carini, Cristian and Bendotti, Giulia and Teodori, Claudio, Evolution of the Management Discussion Content in the Financial Report: A Comparison between Italy and the UK (March 30, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2219265 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2219265
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R Aggarwal , B Simkins
Evidence on Voluntary Disclosures of Derivatives Usage by Large US Companies
Journal of Derivatives Accounting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 81 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Aicpa
Improving business reporting -A costumer focus: Meeting the information need of investors and creditors, comprehensive report of the special committee on financial reporting (the Jenkins report) Posted: 1994
D Alexander , C W Nobes
A European Introduction to Financial Accounting Posted: 1994
G Andrèn
Reliability and Content Analysis
Advances in Content Analysis. Sage , p. 43 - 67 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,312
RANK
580,215
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies