Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Impact of Adopting IFRS 8 on the Segment Disclosures of European Blue Chip Companies

Journal of Internal Accounting, Auditing and Taxation 21 (2012) 79-105

27 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2013

Nancy B. Nichols

James Madison University - College of Business

Donna L. Street

University of Dayton - Accounting

Sandra J. Cereola

James Madison University - School of Accounting; Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

Amidst the IASB’s post-implementation review of IFRS 8, we examine how the standard’s adoption changed the reporting of segments by European blue chips (i.e. companies comprising the top tier index of 14 European stock exchanges). We focus on anticipated benefits articulated in the IASB’s Basis for Conclusions and concerns expressed by IFRS 8 opponents.

In addition to convergence with U.S. GAAP, IFRS 8 results in the reporting of significantly more operating segments on average. However, most companies report the same number or fewer segments. Refuting claims regarding the loss of geographic data at the entity-wide level, we identify an improvement in the fineness of disclosures and a significant increase in the disclosure of geographic groupings. We do not identify an improvement in consistency of segment disclosures with other sections of the annual report, which is due to the consistency already achieved under IAS 14R.

IFRS 8 results in a significant decline in the number of reportable segment information items (notably liabilities) and a significant decline in the reporting of capital expenditures at the entity-wide level. Furthermore, adoption of the standard produces a lack of comparability in segment profitability measures and extensive reporting of non-IFRS measures. However, almost all companies report a measure of segment profitability tied to a number on the consolidated income statement or reconciled to the income statement.

Keywords: IFRS 8, segment reporting, IASB post-implementation review, SFAS 131, convergence

Suggested Citation:

Nichols, Nancy B. and Street, Donna L. and Cereola, Sandra J., An Analysis of the Impact of Adopting IFRS 8 on the Segment Disclosures of European Blue Chip Companies (July 1, 2013). Journal of Internal Accounting, Auditing and Taxation 21 (2012) 79-105 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2224579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Aicpa
Improving business reporting: A customer focus
Financial reporting in the 1990 and beyond Posted: 1993
B K Behn , N B Nichols , D L Street
The predictive ability of geographic segment disclosures by U.S. companies: SFAS no. 131 vs. SFAS no. 14
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 1 , p. 31 - 44 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P G Berger , R N Hann , J D Piotroski
The impact of SFAS no. 131 on information and monitoring
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 223 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L Crawford , H Extance , C Helliar , D Power
Operating segments: The usefulness of IFRS 8 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
713
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,967
RANK
82,662
8 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies