Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Model of the Cost of Income Shifting with an Application to Tax Planning and E-Commerce

39 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2013

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Stacie Kelley (Laplante)

University of Wisconsin - Madison

Date Written: February 28, 2013

Abstract

This manuscript develops a model that incorporates income shifting into investments by U.S. multinationals in their foreign subsidiaries. The model demonstrates that, while there is always an incentive to shift income into the U.S. from high foreign tax rate subsidiaries, income shifting out of the U.S. to low tax rate countries occurs only when the required rate of return on foreign investments is low (repatriations are unlikely), i.e., it is not always optimal to shift to low-tax-rate countries. It also shows that the optimal amount of shifting relates to the interplay of costs and the tax rate differential. We apply the model to examine a setting where cross-sectional costs of income shifting likely vary based on the extent to which a firm is engaged in electronic commerce. Electronic commerce potentially alleviates costs by making it easier for firms to strategically locate sales among foreign jurisdictions, and to shift sales between domestic and foreign locations to benefit from the relative taxation of the two. Consistent with our theory, we find firms in industries with high levels of e-commerce have lower cash effective tax rates, and this effect is magnified for firms that are less likely to have taxable repatriations.

Keywords: tax planning, e-commerce, income shifting

JEL Classification: G38, H25, H32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Klassen, Kenneth and Kelley, Stacie, A Model of the Cost of Income Shifting with an Application to Tax Planning and E-Commerce (February 28, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2226544 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2226544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational financial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R S Avi-Yonah
International Taxation of Electronic commerce
Tax Law Review , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 507 - 556 Posted: 1997
R Azam
E-commerce Taxation and Cyberspace Law: The Integrative Adaptation Model
Virginia Journal of Law and Technology , volume 12 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2007
R Azam
Global taxation of cross-border e-commerce income
Virginia Tax Review , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 639 - 693 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,125
RANK
178,213
3 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies