Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Liability of Foreignness in International Equity Investments: Evidence from the U.S. Stock Market

44 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2013

Bok Baik

Seoul National University

Jun-Koo Kang

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jin-Mo Kim

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Joonho Lee

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona - Accounting Department

Date Written: February 20, 2013

Abstract

Using foreign institutional ownership data in the U.S. from 1990 to 2007, we examine whether foreign institutional investors face liabilities of foreignness (LOF) in the U.S. stock market. We find that foreign institutional investors prefer low information asymmetry stocks more than domestic institutional investors and this preference for low information asymmetry stocks is particularly strong among foreign institutional investors from countries with high LOF. More important, we find that a change in foreign institutional ownership is negatively related to future returns, while this relation does not exist for domestic institutional ownership. The negative relation between the change in foreign institutional ownership and future returns is more pronounced when investors face a greater LOF in the U.S. stock market, for instance, when they are from countries with higher institutional distance, information asymmetry, unfamiliarity, and cultural differences. The negative effect of country-specific LOF factors on the return forecasting power of foreign institutional investors is more evident when they trade stocks with higher information asymmetry. Overall, these findings suggest that foreign institutional investors face significant LOF costs in the U.S. stock market, resulting in their poor ability to forecast returns.

Keywords: foreign institutional ownership, domestic institutional ownership, liability of foreignness, return predictability, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, F21

Suggested Citation:

Baik, Bok and Kang, Jun-Koo and Kim, Jin-Mo and Lee, Joonho, The Liability of Foreignness in International Equity Investments: Evidence from the U.S. Stock Market (February 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2226890 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2226890
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
B Kogut , H Singh
The effect of national culture on the choice of entry mode
Journal of International Business Studies , p. 411 - 432 Posted: 1988
Crossref
La Porta , R Lopez-De-Silanes , F Shleifer , A Vishny , R
Legal determinants of external finance
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 1131 - 50 Posted: 1997
La Porta , R Lopez-De-Silanes , F Shleifer , A Vishny , R
Law and finance
Journal of Political Economy , volume 106 , p. 1113 - 55 Posted: 1998
La Porta , R Lopez-De-Silanes , F Shleifer , A Vishny , R
The quality of government
Economics, and Organization , volume 15 , p. 222 - 79 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
20 Citations
Narjess Boubakri , Sadok El Ghoul , He Wang , Omrane Guedhami , Chuck C.Y. Kwok
Cross-Listing and Corporate Social Responsibility
Journal of Corporate Finance · 48 Pages · Posted: 12 Oct 2015 · Last revised: 7 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 552
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jeong-Bon Kim , Mikhail Pevzner , Xiangang Xin
Foreign Institutional Ownership and Auditor Choice: Evidence from Worldwide Institutional Ownership
Journal of International Business Studies 50, 83-110 · 51 Pages · Posted: 12 Jul 2016 · Last revised: 1 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 369
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Iftekhar Hasan , Incheol Kim , Haimeng Teng , Qiang Wu
The Effect of Institutional Distance on Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Foreign Institutional Investors
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming · 47 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2016 · Last revised: 3 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 370
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fariborz Moshirian , Peter Kien Pham , Shu Tian , Eliza Wu
Foreign Ties that Bind: Cross-Border Firm Expansions and Fund Portfolio Allocation Around the World
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, forthcoming · 57 Pages · Posted: 27 Jul 2018 · Last revised: 13 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 376
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,224
RANK
276,301
20 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Motivating Innovation

By Gustavo Manso

Bankruptcy Codes and Innovation

By Viral V. Acharya and Krishnamurthy Subramanian

Innovation and Institutional Ownership

By Philippe Aghion, John Van Reenen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies