Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reporting Aggressiveness, Financial Reporting Aggressiveness, and Multinational Corporate Development -- Evidence from Japan

31 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2013

Hiroshi Onuma

Tokyo University of Science

Date Written: March 11, 2013

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the information content in the difference between in-come reported to shareholders and income reported to tax authorities (hereinafter, the BTD), and the interaction between tax aggressiveness and financial reporting aggressiveness. Through my investigation, I explore how the tax planning and tax strategy affect on the management and corporate strategy for multinational development of Japanese companies, assuming that these Japanese companies make use of such a tax shelter scheme and utilize the scheme to manage an earning. This study makes several contributions to research in financial accounting, tax accounting and finance. First, I find that the growing BTD is mainly caused by earnings management by corporate managers using Japanese data. Second, I develop an enhanced measure of tax reporting aggressiveness sup-ported from prior studies. Third, I document that financial reporting aggressiveness and tax reporting aggressiveness are negatively related to each other, as well as to other corporate policies. Moreover, this evidence suggests that Japanese firms have fewer rooms for widening the BTD if they endeavor to make more avoidance for tax payment. This result is inconsistent with prior studies based on the evidence of U.S., such as Frank, et al. (2009). Lastly, this research suggests that tax reporting aggressiveness of Japanese firms has got involved with their advance into overseas market, which should be of interest to current and potential corporate investors.

Keywords: tax aggressiveness, earnings management, tax shelter, permanent difference, multinational development, definite-settlement-of-accounts standard

JEL Classification: M40, H26, G34

Suggested Citation:

Onuma, Hiroshi, Tax Reporting Aggressiveness, Financial Reporting Aggressiveness, and Multinational Corporate Development -- Evidence from Japan (March 11, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2231803 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2231803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,876
RANK
250,867
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies