Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adopting a Label: Heterogeneity in the Economic Consequences Around IAS/IFRS Adoptions

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 51, No. 3, pp. 495-547, 2013

Posted: 19 Mar 2013 Last revised: 21 Apr 2013

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 12, 2013

Abstract

This study examines liquidity and cost of capital effects around voluntary and mandatory IAS/IFRS adoptions. In contrast to prior work, we focus on the firm-level heterogeneity in the economic consequences, recognizing that firms have considerable discretion in how they implement the new standards. Some firms may make very few changes and adopt IAS/IFRS more in name, while for others the change in standards could be part of a strategy to increase their commitment to transparency. To test these predictions, we classify firms into ‘label’ and ‘serious’ adopters using firm-level changes in reporting incentives, actual reporting behavior, and the external reporting environment around the switch to IAS/IFRS. We analyze whether capital-market effects are different across ‘serious’ and ‘label’ firms. While on average liquidity and costs of capital often do not change around voluntary IAS/IFRS adoptions, we find considerable heterogeneity: ‘Serious’ adoptions are associated with an increase in liquidity and a decline in cost of capital, whereas ‘label’ adoptions are not. We obtain similar results when classifying firms around mandatory IFRS adoption. Our findings imply that we have to exercise caution when interpreting capital-market effects around IAS/IFRS adoption as they also reflect changes in reporting incentives or broader changes in firms’ reporting strategies, and not just the standards.

Keywords: International accounting, Reporting incentives, IAS, U.S. GAAP, Disclosure, Cost of equity, IFRS implementation

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G30, K22, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Daske, Holger and Hail, Luzi and Leuz, Christian and Verdi, Rodrigo S., Adopting a Label: Heterogeneity in the Economic Consequences Around IAS/IFRS Adoptions (March 12, 2013). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 51, No. 3, pp. 495-547, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2232383
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,143
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies