Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Bilateral Tax Treaties on FDI Inflows: The Case of India

35 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2013

K. V. Bhanu Murthy

University of Delhi - School of Economics - Commerce Department; Delhi Technological University

Niti Bhasin

University of Delhi - Department of Commerce

Date Written: March 18, 2013

Abstract

Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows are driven by both home country and host country conditions. It is for the host country to provide a conducive environment to FDI. Many developing Asian economies, including India, have redesigned their tax systems to make them internationally competitive. Bilateral tax treaties are seen as an instrument of policy that makes this possible. Tax treaties alleviate the problem of international double taxation. They create an environment of fiscal and legal certainty.

This paper examines the FDI inflows to India from 14 countries that are major partners. With the help of panel data for the period of 1993-2007, this paper models the role of tax treaties in promoting FDI. A fixed effects (LSDV) model is developed that captures macro-economic factors and policy factors such as openness. We have also used Principal Component Analysis to augment the model’s analytical richness.

The model estimates shows that FDI inflows into India have been growing due to macro-economic variables, and policy variables including tax treaties. The results show that FDI to India is driven by supply and demand determined factors. It is market seeking and efficiency seeking. It is facilitated by tax treaties. The introduction of the treaty has had a positive impact and FDI flows have jumped due to the treaty. We get largely significant results for the ‘age of the treaty effect’, it clearly shows that in the case of Mauritius, UK, Singapore, Switzerland, UAE and Italy FDI flows to India accelerated after implementation of tax treaties. There is very small but significant and positive effect of tax treaties.

Keywords: Tax Treaties, Determinants of FDI, Fixed Effects model, PCA

JEL Classification: F21, F23, H87, H89

Suggested Citation:

Murthy, K. V. Bhanu and Bhasin, Niti, The Impact of Bilateral Tax Treaties on FDI Inflows: The Case of India (March 18, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2234966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2234966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Rosanne Altshuler , T Scott Newlon , William Randolph
Do Repatriation Taxes Matter? Evidence from the Tax Returns of
The Effects of Taxation on Multinational Corporations Posted: 1995
Crossref
Glenn Hubbard , Chicago
, p. 253 - 272
H Ault , D Bradford
Taxing International Income: An Analysis of the U.S. System and its Economic Premises , p. 11 - 46 Posted: 1990
Bruce A Blonigen , Ronald B Davies
The Effects of Bilateral Tax Treaties on U.S. FDI Activity Posted: 2000-10
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,785
RANK
140,530
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Bilateral Tax Treaties on U.S. FDI Activity

By Bruce A. Blonigen and Ronald B. Davies

The Effects of Bilateral Tax Treaties on U.S. FDI Activity

By Bruce A. Blonigen and Ronald B. Davies

Competing for Capital: The Diffusion of Bilateral Investment Treaties, 1960-2000

By Zachary Elkins, Andrew T. Guzman, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies