Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Effects of Opacity: Evidence from Tax Avoidance

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 13-16

61 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2013 Last revised: 2 Feb 2018

Jon N. Kerr

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 19, 2012

Abstract

This study provides evidence on a significant real consequence of an opaque financial reporting information environment: increased corporate tax avoidance. Using an international sample of firms, I find that firms with a more opaque information environment, as measured at both the firm and country level, exhibit higher levels of firm-specific tax avoidance. More importantly, additional tests using the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as an exogenous shock to the information environment while simultaneously controlling for tax regime changes around the date of IFRS adoption provide direct evidence on the direction of the association, namely that opacity causes tax avoidance. Similarly, the results from tests using the initial enforcement of insider trading laws provide additional support for a directional hypothesis. In support of the firm-level findings, I also find evidence in the aggregate that opacity is associated with countries collecting less corporate tax revenues as a percentage of gross domestic product. In whole, these findings suggest that tax avoidance is a significant real effect of opacity with implications for practitioners, regulators, researchers, and tax-enforcement agencies.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, IFRS Adoption, Information Opacity

JEL Classification: C23, F23, G14, H25, H26, K33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kerr, Jon N., The Real Effects of Opacity: Evidence from Tax Avoidance (November 19, 2012). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 13-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2234197 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2234197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
D Amiram , A M Bauer , M M Frank
The eect of the shareholder dividend tax policy on corporate tax avoidance Posted: 2011
Crossref
Dan Amiram , Edward Owens
Sign Reversal in the Relationship between Income Smoothing and Cost of Debt
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming Pages: 59 Posted: 17 Nov 2010 Last revised: 15 Dec 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Anderson , A Duru , D Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the U
S. Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 Posted: 2009
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
490
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,066
RANK
132,934
7 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies