Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax and Inflow of FDI

11 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013

Heri Bezić

University of Rijeka - Faculty of Economics

Duško Pavlović

College of Business and Management (Baltazar Adam Krcelic)

Date Written: March 24, 2013

Abstract

The article examines the impact of corporate tax rates on inflow of foreign direct investments. In the last 15 years the countries all over the world have adopted numerous measures in order to attract more foreign capital. One of the most common measures has been the reduction in the corporate tax rates. Although useful article shows that taken in isolation this measure has not had a significant impact on investment decision taken by the foreign investors. Macroeconomic stability, stable social and political environment, ease of doing business and ability to hire skilled labour influence investment decisions much more then the level of corporate tax rates. Croatia has also louvered its corporate tax rate from 35% to 20% in 2001. Judging from the available data that has not had any impact on inflow of FDI. In order to attract more greenfield investment Croatia will have to sort out some domestic issues and to organise more effective targeting of the largest multinational companies.

Keywords: FDI, multinational companies, corporate tax rate

Suggested Citation:

Bezić, Heri and Pavlović, Duško, The Tax and Inflow of FDI (March 24, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2238637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
K A Clausing , R James , Hines
The Impact of Transfer Pricing on Intrafirm Trade
International Taxation and Mulinational Activity Posted: 2001
Crossref
John H Dunning
Assessing the Costs and Benefits of Foreign Direct Investment: Some Theoretical Considerations
Foreign Investment and Privatisation in Eastern Europe Posted: 2001
Crossref
James R Hines
Balance of Payments Manuel
International Taxation and Mulinational Activity and Direct Investment in Developing Countries, James R. Hines Jr Posted: 1993
N M Jensen
Nation-States and the Multinational Corporation Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,391
RANK
644,872
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies