Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does PCAOB Inspection Access Improve Audit Quality? An Examination of Foreign Firms Listed in the United States

55 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2013 Last revised: 4 Nov 2015

Phillip T. Lamoreaux

Arizona State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 1, 2015

Abstract

To gain insight into the impact of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s (PCAOB) auditor inspection program, I examine the association between the PCAOB’s access to inspect auditors of foreign SEC registrants and audit quality. Although the PCAOB is mandated to inspect all auditors of SEC registrants, certain foreign governments prohibit PCAOB inspections of their domestic auditors, providing variation in PCAOB inspection access that is not available when studying a US sample of companies. I find that auditors subject to PCAOB inspection access provide higher quality audits as measured by more going concern opinions, more reported material weaknesses, and less earnings management, relative to auditors not subject to PCAOB inspection. There is no observable difference between the two sets of auditors prior to the PCAOB inspection regime. The positive effect of PCAOB inspection access on audit quality is observed in jurisdictions with, and without, a local audit regulator. Overall, the results are consistent with PCAOB inspection access being positively associated with audit quality.

Keywords: PCAOB, audit regulation, audit quality, going concern, internal control weakness

JEL Classification: G18, L51, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lamoreaux, Phillip T., Does PCAOB Inspection Access Improve Audit Quality? An Examination of Foreign Firms Listed in the United States (November 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2238168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
C Lennox , J Pittman
Auditing the auditors: Evidence on the recent reforms to the external monitoring of audit firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , p. 84 - 103 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Lennox , X Wu , T Zhang
The effect of audit adjustments on earnings quality: Evidence from China Posted: 2015
Crossref
R O Magee , M C Tseng
Audit pricing and independence
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , issue 2 , p. 315 - 336 Posted: 1990
P Michas
The importance of audit profession development in emerging market countries
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1731 - 1764 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
712
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,349
RANK
82,809
33 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies