Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Groups as Hierarchies of Firms: Determinants of Vertical Integration and Performance

Paolo Baffi Centre Research Paper No. 2013-135

42 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2013

Carlo Altomonte

Bocconi University - Department of Policy Analysis and Public Management

Armando Rungi

Scuola IMT Alti Studi Lucca

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 18, 2013

Abstract

We explore the nature of Business Groups, that is network-like forms of hierarchical organization between legally autonomous firms spanning both within and across national borders. Exploiting a unique dataset of 270,474 headquarters controlling more than 1,500,000 (domestic and foreign) affiliates in all countries worldwide, we find that business groups account for a significant part of value-added generation in both developed and developing countries, with a prevalence in the latter. In order to characterize their boundaries, we distinguish between an affiliate vs. a group-level index of vertical integration, as well as an entropy-like metric able to summarize the hierarchical complexity of a group and its trade-off between exploitation of knowledge as an input across the hierarchy and the associated communication costs. We relate these metrics to host country institutional characteristics, as well as to the performance of affiliates across business groups. Conditional on institutional quality, a negative correlation exists between vertical integration and organizational complexity in defining the boundaries of business groups. We also find a robust (albeit non-linear) positive relationship between a group's organizational complexity and productivity which dominates the already known correlation between vertical integration and productivity. Results are in line with the theoretical framework of knowledge-based hierarchies developed by the literature, in which intangible assets are a complementary input in the production processes.

Keywords: production chains, hierarchies, business groups, nancial development, property rights, vertical integration, corporate ownership, organization of production, productivity

JEL Classification: F23, L22, L23, L25, D24, G34

Suggested Citation:

Altomonte, Carlo and Rungi, Armando, Business Groups as Hierarchies of Firms: Determinants of Vertical Integration and Performance (March 18, 2013). Paolo Baffi Centre Research Paper No. 2013-135, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2239598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2239598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
D Acemoglu , P Antrr , H Elhanan
Contracts and Technology Adoption
American Economic Review , issue 3 , p. 916 - 943 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , Mitton T
Determinants of Vertical Integration: Financial Development and Contracting Costs
The Journal of Finance LXIV , issue 3 , p. 1251 - 1290 Posted: 2009
Crossref
V V Acharya , S C Myers , R G Rajan
The Internal Governance of Firms
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 689 - 720 Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Aghion , R Holden
Incomplete Contracts and the Theory of the Firm: What Have We Learned over the Past 25 Years?
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 181 - 97 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,084
RANK
73,175
5 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

BAFFI Centre on Economics, Finance & Regulation Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Nature and Growth of Vertical Specialization in World Trade

By David L. Hummels, Jun Ishii, ...

Foreign Direct Investment and Relative Wages: Evidence from Mexico's Maquiladoras

By Robert C. Feenstra and Gordon H. Hanson

Globalization, Outsourcing, and Wage Inequality

By Robert C. Feenstra and Gordon H. Hanson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies