Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Comparability and Economic Outcomes of Mandatory IFRS Adoption

42 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2013 Last revised: 23 Feb 2020

Michael Neel

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 7, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the associations between four economic outcomes of the 2005 mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and concurrent changes in two important accounting constructs, accounting comparability and reporting quality. My primary purpose is to evaluate the relative importance of cross-country accounting comparability and firm-specific reporting quality in explaining previously documented increases in Tobin’s Q, stock liquidity, analyst forecast accuracy, and analyst forecast agreement following IFRS adoption. Given that improvements in both comparability and reporting quality are primary stated objectives of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), it is important to understand their relative roles in shaping the information environment of financial statement users following IFRS adoption. Using 1,861 first-time adopters in 23 countries, I find that firms with a larger improvement in comparability have larger increases in Q, liquidity, forecast accuracy, and forecast agreement following adoption, relative to other adopters. In contrast, improvements in reporting quality around adoption appear to have only a second-order effect that is generally limited to Q effects among those adopters with concurrent improvements in comparability. These results are robust to alternative design and variable specifications. Finally, I continue to find these results for samples restricted to countries with weaker pre-adoption institutional environments and countries that did not initiate pro-active financial statement reviews, indicating that strong institutions and regulatory improvements are not driving the results Overall, my results suggest that improvements in cross-country accounting comparability played an important role in the previously documented economic benefits that accrued to 2005 mandatory IFRS adopters.

Keywords: IFRS, Accounting Comparability, Valuation, Stock liquidity, Analyst forecasts

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Neel, Michael, Accounting Comparability and Economic Outcomes of Mandatory IFRS Adoption (July 7, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2241218 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2241218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality: preliminary evidence?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
C S Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: the impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,026
RANK
140,158
17 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies