Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Working Capital Management and Firm Listing Status

Multinational Finance Journal, 2012, vol. 16, no. 3/4, pp. 261–301

41 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2013 Last revised: 13 Nov 2014

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 30, 2013

Abstract

This study comparatively examines the determinants of working capital management for listed vs. unlisted firms, and assesses the impact of this policy on profitability by focusing on the cash conversion cycle, a commonly used measure of working capital management. By using a large UK public and private firm sample, it is found that private firms have significantly lower cash conversion cycles than their public counterparts, and that traditional determinants of the cycle significantly differ between the two groups. The findings are robust to matching public and private firms according to a number of fundamental characteristics, allowing only for their listing status to differ. Results further indicate that the cash conversion cycle has a relatively stronger (negative) impact on operating profitability for private, compared to public firms. This is consistent with greater importance of efficient working capital management for firms with more restricted access to external financing.

Keywords: working capital, cash conversion cycle, private firms, listing status

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, M40

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C., Working Capital Management and Firm Listing Status (March 30, 2013). Multinational Finance Journal, 2012, vol. 16, no. 3/4, pp. 261–301, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2242119
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
G Andrade , S Kaplan
How costly is financial (not economic) distress? Evidence from highly leveraged transactions that became distressed
Journal of Finance , volume 53 , p. 1443 - 1492 Posted: 1998
Crossref
John William Asker , Joan Farre-Mensa , Alexander Ljungqvist , Alexander Ljungqvist
What do Private Firms Look Like?
Pages: 36 Posted: 16 Aug 2010 Last revised: 30 Mar 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Baños-Cabbalero , P García-Teruel , P Martínez-Solano
Working capital management in SMEs
Accounting and Finance , volume 50 , p. 511 - 527 Posted: 2010
Crossref
O Brav
Access to capital, capital structure, and the funding of the firm
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 263 - 308 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
436
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,585
RANK
113,060
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Trade Credit: Theories and Evidence

By Mitchell A. Petersen and Raghuram G. Rajan

Interfirm Relationships and Informal Credit in Vietnam

By John Mcmillan and Christopher M. Woodruff

Commercial Paper, Corporate Finance, and the Business Cycle: A Microeconomic Perspective

By Charles W. Calomiris, Charles P. Himmelberg, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies