Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chinese Accounting Restatement and the Timeliness of Annual Report

38 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2013

Chen Ma

Northwest University

Junrui Zhang

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Hui Du

University of Houston, Clear Lake

Date Written: April 3, 2013

Abstract

Chinese accounting restatements are mainly disclosed in companies’ annual reports due to unique Chinese institutional background and regulatory setting. Using manually collected data of 1050 accounting restatements from 2003 to 2011, we study the association between Chinese accounting restatement and the timeliness of annual report. The results from our difference-in-difference research design indicate that with an accounting restatement, a company takes longer to file its annual reports in the post-restatement period than in the pre-restatement period, suggesting a negative association between Chinese accounting restatements and timeliness of annual reports. When further examining the association between various restatement characteristics and timeliness of annual reports, we find an overall negative association between restatement severity and the timeliness of annual reports. We contribute to the existing accounting restatement literature from international perspective with evidence that restatements delay the timeliness of financial reporting.

Keywords: accounting restatement, timeliness of annual report, disclosure

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Chen and Zhang, Junrui and Du, Hui, Chinese Accounting Restatement and the Timeliness of Annual Report (April 3, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2244655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2244655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D M Anderson
Taking Stock in China: Company Disclosure and Information in China's Stock Markets
Georgetown Law Journal , volume 88 , p. 1919 - 1952 Posted: 2000
Kirsten L. Anderson , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Effect of 10k Restatements on Firm Value, Information Asymmetries, and Investors' Reliance on Earnings
Pages: 30 Posted: 17 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ashton , P Graul , &amp; J Newton
Audit delay and the Timeliness of Corporate Reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 657 - 673 Posted: 1989
Crossref
B A Badertscher , J J Burks
Accounting Restatements and the Timeliness of Dis closures
Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 609 - 629 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,301
RANK
249,052
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Restating Under the Radar? Determinants of Restatement Disclosure Choices and the Related Market Reactions

By Linda A. Myers, Susan Scholz, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies