Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deferred Taxes and Cost of Debt: Evidence from Japan

35 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2013

Yumi Inamura

Niigata University - Faculty of Economics

Shin'ya Okuda

Nagoya City University

Date Written: April 5, 2013

Abstract

This paper investigates the information content of deferred taxes in the Japanese debt market. We find that net deferred tax assets are negatively associated with cost of debt. Moreover, we find that deferred tax liabilities are positively associated with cost of debt but deferred tax assets are not. This evidence may reflect that it is more probable that tax obligation will arise than the tax benefits will realize. Additionally, we find no evidence that deferred tax assets caused by temporary differences and deferred liabilities are significantly different with respect to their impact on cost of debt. These results suggest that debt investors in the Japanese debt market value the various components of deferred tax assets differently.

Keywords: Deferred taxes, Cost of debt, Deferred tax assets, Deferred tax liabilities, Valuation

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Inamura, Yumi and Okuda, Shin'ya, Deferred Taxes and Cost of Debt: Evidence from Japan (April 5, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2245741 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2245741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
E Amir , M Kirchenheiter , &amp; K Willard
The valuation of deferred taxes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 597 - 622 Posted: 1997
Crossref
B C Ayers
Deferred tax accounting under SFAS No. 109: An empirical investigation of its incremental value-relevance relative to APB No
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 11 , p. 195 - 212 Posted: 1998
D &amp; I Burgstahler , Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C C Bauman , M P F Bauman &amp; R , Halsey
Do Firms Use the Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance to Manage Earnings?
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 23 , p. 27 - 48 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,055
RANK
333,158
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Large-Sample Evidence on the Debt Covenant Hypothesis

By Ilia D. Dichev and Douglas J. Skinner

How Does Financing Impact Investment? The Role of Debt Covenants

By Sudheer Chava and Michael R. Roberts

Syndicated Loans

By Steven A. Dennis and Donald J. Mullineaux

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies