Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internationalization and Environmental Disclosure: The Role of Home and Host Institutions

Multinational Business Review, Vol. 21, No. 1, 2013, pp. 87-114

26 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2013

Ans Kolk

University of Amsterdam Business School

Fabienne Fortanier

University of Amsterdam Business School

Date Written: April 11, 2013

Abstract

Purpose – The domestic institutional context has emerged as a key determinant of firms’ environmental disclosure, but studies have hardly addressed the extent to which exposure to foreign institutional contexts plays a role in the occurrence and contents of non-financial disclosure, crucial aspects for understanding multinationals’ accountability. This article therefore investigates the relationship between internationalization (both degree and spread) and environmental disclosure.

Design/methodology/approach – It is hypothesized that both home and host country institutional pressures affect the relationship between internationalization and environmental disclosure, and that effects are more prominent in environmentally-sensitive sectors. The proposed relationships are tested using data from the Fortune Global 250.

Findings – Results show a significantly negative relationship between the degree of internationalization and environmental disclosure, which is only partly mitigated by environmental governance and institutional quality in home and host countries. Only for firms in high-sensitivity sectors from high-standard countries is the relationship positive. Findings are particularly strong for the degree of internationalization; and non-significant for dispersion/spread.

Originality/value – This article moves beyond the predominant focus on country-of-origin effects by adding exposure to foreign institutional contexts, for which it develops a new indicator. It renews attention to non-financial disclosure, a topic underexposed in the IB literature. Viewed from a broader IB perspective, the article provides an empirical illustration of the effect of home and host institutions on firm strategy, and of the use of different metrics to assess internationalization with divergent results for degree versus spread, as well as for sales versus assets, pointing at areas for further research.

Keywords: Internationalization, environmental reporting, institutions, home/host country, country of origin, multinationality, multinationals, international business

JEL Classification: D21, F23, G38, H79, K32, L1, L2, L5, M1, M14, M49, Q2, Q28

Suggested Citation:

Kolk, Ans and Fortanier, Fabienne, Internationalization and Environmental Disclosure: The Role of Home and Host Institutions (April 11, 2013). Multinational Business Review, Vol. 21, No. 1, 2013, pp. 87-114, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2249068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
C A Adams , W Hill , C B Roberts
Corporate social reporting practices in Western Europe: legitimating corporate behaviour?
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Aguilera-Caracuel , J A Aragón-Correa , N E Hurtado-Torres
Extending the literature on the environmental strategy of MNEs
Multinational Business Review , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 299 - 310 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Araya
Exploring Terra Incognita. Non-financial reporting in corporate Latin America
Journal of Corporate Citizenship , volume 21 , p. 25 - 38 Posted: 2006
P Bansal , K Roth
Why companies go green: a model of ecological responsiveness
Academy of Management Journal , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 717 - 736 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,058
RANK
405,369
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies