Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Characteristics and Dynamics of Management Controls in IJVs: Evidence from a Sino-Japanese Case

Forthcoming in Management Accounting Research

Posted: 16 Apr 2013

Pingli Li

Southampton Business School, University of Southampton

Guliang Tang

University of International Business and Economics

Hirosh Okano

Independent

Gao Chen

Independent

Date Written: April 15, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines the characteristics and dynamics of management controls in international joint ventures (IJVs) from multiple-dimensional perspectives. Adopting an in-depth case study method in the instance of a large automotive IJV formed between two Chinese and Japanese partners, the study seeks to improve on existing models by accounting for the three dimensions of management controls: mechanism, focus, and extent, and examining their interrelationships and dynamics. It offers the first observation on how, at the post-formation stage, parents may adjust the extent of control over specific activities or the tightness of a control mechanism to reflect environmental changes without unsettling their overall control structure; thus, a balance between stability and change is achieved. A shared but split control style is identified, supplementing previous descriptions of management style in IJVs, within which two partners share control access over the entire range of activities with broad control focus, but each possesses tight control only over certain specific activities.

Keywords: Management controls, International joint venture, Dynamics, Multiple-dimensions, China

Suggested Citation:

Li, Pingli and Tang, Guliang and Okano, Hirosh and Chen, Gao, The Characteristics and Dynamics of Management Controls in IJVs: Evidence from a Sino-Japanese Case (April 15, 2013). Forthcoming in Management Accounting Research , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2251559
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,161
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies