Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Financial Communication: Evidence from Unregulated Markets of Brussels and Paris

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 7 (5) p. 107-122

16 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2013

Laetitia Pozniak

Université de Mons

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This paper examines the internet financial disclosure of 34 companies listed on un-regulated markets in Brussels and 34 twin firms quoted in Paris. The purpose of this research is twofold. First, we study the level of internet financial disclosure and we compare the levels of French and Belgian un-regulated markets. Next we identify factors determine this level. We applied an analytical grid, based on prescriptions in the literature concerning Internet financial disclosure to analyze 68 websites. A communication score was thus obtained for each firm. We identify if differences in communication scores are significant. This score was then regressed according to our hypotheses. The findings show Belgian firms have a higher level of internet financial communication and that a firm’ size, age, membership of the IT sector and market place have an impact on the internet financial disclosure of un-regulated market listed companies.

Keywords: Financial Communication, Websites Analyses, Internet Financial Reporting (IFR), Non-Regulated Financial Markets, Voluntary Disclosure

JEL Classification: M15, G10, C50, 032

Suggested Citation:

Pozniak, Laetitia, Internet Financial Communication: Evidence from Unregulated Markets of Brussels and Paris (2013). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 7 (5) p. 107-122, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2262501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
O H Abdelsalam , S M Bryant , D L Street
An examination of the comprehensiveness of corporate internet reporting provided by London-listed companies
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Adams , M Hossain
Managerial discretion and voluntary disclosure: empirical evidence from the New Zealand life insurance industry
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 17 , p. 245 - 281 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Allam , A Lymer
Developments in Internet financial reporting: review and analysis across five developed countries
International Journal of Digital Accounting Research , volume 3 , issue 6 , p. 165 - 200 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L C Almilia
An Empirical Study of Factors Influencing Internet Financial and Sustainability Reporting in Indonesia Stock Exchange Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
RANK
499,164
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies