Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Parents Use of Subsidiaries to 'Push Down' Earnings Management: Evidence from Italy

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 8 May 2013 Last revised: 15 Jul 2017

Massimiliano Bonacchi

Free University of Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management; Stern School of Business, New York University

Fabrizio Cipollini

Universita di Firenze, DiSIA (Dipartimento di Statistica, Informatica, Applicazioni)

Paul Zarowin

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 1, 2017

Abstract

We find evidence consistent with Italian non-listed subsidiaries engaging in accrual and real earnings management, so that their listed parents can meet or beat benchmarks. Thus, the parent firm drives the earnings management of the subsidiaries.We identify parents that are more likely to have managed earnings as the ones that avoid a small loss or meet or beat analyst forecast by a few cents. Cross-sectional analysis reveals that Big 4 auditors mitigate accrual earnings management at the subsidiary level and that family-owned firms use earnings management through non-listed subsidiaries mainly to avoid reporting losses. Finally, we find that parent firms communicate earnings management strategies to their subsidiaries using board proximity. Our evidence shows that business groups manage earnings differently from single firms, pushing earnings management down to subsidiaries. It also supports the monitoring role of Big 4 auditors in a business group setting and contributes to understanding financial reporting decisions in family-owned firms.

Keywords: Earnings management, Private subsidiaries, Consolidation process, Accounting accruals, Real activities

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bonacchi, Massimiliano and Cipollini, Fabrizio and Zarowin, Paul, Parents Use of Subsidiaries to 'Push Down' Earnings Management: Evidence from Italy (June 1, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2262042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2262042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
517
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,927
RANK
124,535
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies