Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Balance-Sheet Conservatism: The Spanish Case

Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad - Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming)

39 Pages Posted: 23 May 2013 Last revised: 31 May 2013

Raul Iniguez Sánchez

Universidad de Alicante-Dpto. Economía Financiera

Francisco Poveda

Universidad de Alicante-Dpto. Economía Financiera

Pablo J. Vazquez Veira

University of Alicante - Finance & Accounting

Date Written: May 23, 2013

Abstract

This study aims to analyze the effect on accounting conservatism of IFRS adoption in Spain. Following evidence found in previous studies we expect a decline in balance-sheet accounting conservatism due to this change towards a more Anglo-Saxon accounting system. Using a sample of Spanish and UK firms during the period 2000-2009, we find evidence that the adoption of IFRS has led to a decrease of the balance-sheet conservatism in the Spanish market. Regarding the conservatism gap between these two countries, our analysis suggests that the conservatism difference between Spain and the UK has been reduced significantly after the IFRS adoption. Nevertheless, we show the limitations that exist in order to measure balance-sheet conservatism opening the door to new future research.

Note: Downloadable document is in Spanish.

Keywords: conservatism, valuation, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Iniguez Sánchez, Raul and Poveda, Francisco and Vazquez, Pablo J., The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Balance-Sheet Conservatism: The Spanish Case (May 23, 2013). Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad - Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2268917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
B Amor , C Bona , J Pérez , M Tascón
Conservadurismo del resultado y riesgo de litigio en el sector bancario
Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , p. 556 - 585 Posted: 2011
Paul Andre , Andrei Filip , Luc Paugam
Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe
Forthcoming Journal of Business Finance & Accounting Pages: 44 Posted: 5 Jan 2012 Last revised: 6 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP Differences: The Impact on Foreign Analysts , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,809
RANK
370,049
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies