Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards on the Quality of Accounting Information of the Brazilian and European Public Firms

16 Pages Posted: 28 May 2013 Last revised: 19 Jun 2013

Edilson Paulo

Federal University of Santa Catarina

Felipe Pontes

L4 Capital; Azure Investments; Federal University of Paraiba (UFPB)

David Carter

University of Roehampton

Rodrigo de Souza

University of Roehampton - Social Sciences

Date Written: May 27, 2013

Abstract

Several factors affect the quality of accounting information, such as characteristics of the firm, practices and procedures adopted in the elaboration of the financial statements, corporative governance system, capital market, regulation, among others. Among these factors, it is noteworthy the influence of the accounting standards about the quality of the numbers reported by the firms. Since 2005, the European companies elaborated their consolidated financial statements according to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), while in Brazil, the process of convergence of national accounting standards to IFRS was promoted just after the approval of the Law nº 11.638/07, therefore, after that, the Comitê de Pronunciamentos Contábeis (CPC) approved various Technical Pronouncements which aimed to facilitate the convergence of Brazilian accounting standards to these international rules. Considering that these international accounting standards have a higher quality, it is expected that the IFRS adoption affect positively accounting information quality. Thus, this research aims to analyze the effect of the IFRS adoption in the earnings quality reported by the Brazilian and European public firms, in the period between 2000 and 2011, considering that previous research did not showed a consensus about this topic. Empirical technical models, such as persistence, conservatism, earnings management and accruals errors, were used to reach the proposed objective. The results showed that the quality of accounting information has not significantly improved comparing the period before and after the adoption of the IFRS in Brazil or Europe.

Keywords: Quality of accounting information, International Financial Reporting Standards, Conservatism, Accruals, Earnings management

JEL Classification: C50, M41

Suggested Citation:

Paulo, Edilson and Pontes Girão, Luiz Felipe de Araújo and Carter, David and de Souza, Rodrigo, The Impact of the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards on the Quality of Accounting Information of the Brazilian and European Public Firms (May 27, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2270678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2270678
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Ashiq ; Ali , Hwang , S Lee
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Ray Ball
Discussion: The association between firms' value and accounting numbers after adoption of fresh start reporting
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , issue 3 , p. 212 - 218 Posted: 1999-07
Crossref
Lakshmanan __________; Shivakumar
Earnings quality UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005-02
Eli ; Bartov , Stephen R ; Goldberg , Myungsun Kim
Comparative value relevance among German, U.S., and international accounting standards: a German stock market perspective
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2005-04
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Li Li Eng , Jing Lin , João Neiva De Figueiredo
International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption and Information Quality: Evidence from Brazil
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Vol. 30, Issue 1, pp. 5-29, 2019 · 25 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2019 · Downloads: 11
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ana Gisbert , Bruno Salotti
Firm Incentives, Institutional Factors and Accounting Quality: The IFRS Adoption in Brazil
48 Pages · Posted: 16 Feb 2015 · Downloads: 351
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,511
RANK
34,293
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies