Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Corporation in Society: An Alternative View and Opportunities for Future Research

27 Pages Posted: 28 May 2013 Last revised: 9 Jun 2014

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: May 27, 2013

Abstract

A long-standing ideology in business education has been that a corporation is run for the sole interest of its shareholders. I present an alternative view where increasing concentration of economic activity and power in the world’s largest corporations, the Global 1000, has opened the way for managers to consider the interests of a broader set of stakeholders rather than only shareholders. Having documented that this alternative view better fits actual corporate conduct, I discuss opportunities for future research. Specifically, I call for research on the materiality of environmental and social issues for the future financial performance of corporations, the design of incentive and control systems to guide strategy execution, corporate reporting, and the role of investors in this new paradigm.

Keywords: corporate performance, corporate size, sustainability, corporate social responsibility, accounting

JEL Classification: G3, K2, M1, M2, M3, M4, M5

Suggested Citation:

Serafeim, George, The Role of the Corporation in Society: An Alternative View and Opportunities for Future Research (May 27, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2270579 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2270579
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Balotti , J Hanks
Giving at the office: a reappraisal of charitable contributions by corporations
Business Lawyer , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 956 - 966 Posted: 1999
R Benabou , J Tirole
Belief in a just world and redistributive politics
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 121 , issue 2 , p. 699 - 746 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Adolf Berle , Gardiner Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
Beiting Cheng , Ioannis Ioannou , George Serafeim
Corporate Social Responsibility and Access to Finance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 35 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,372
RANK
5,008
16 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies