Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Accounting Information for Intangible-Intensive Industries and the Impact of Scale: The US Evidence

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 29 May 2013 Last revised: 12 Jun 2013

Mustafa Ciftci

American University of Sharjah - School of Business and Management

Masako N. Darrough

Baruch College - CUNY

Raj Mashruwala

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: May 28, 2013

Abstract

The structural shift in the US from a tangible- to an intangible-intensive economy raises a concern that GAAP-based reporting might have lost its usefulness to investors. Amir and Lev (1996) argue that accounting information is not useful for intangible-intensive firms. In contrast, Collins et al. (1997) find that the value relevance (measured by R-squared) of accounting information has increased over time and that value relevance for intangible-intensive industries is as high as that for tangible-intensive industries. In this article we attempt to resolve the above discrepancy by examining the impact of scale on R-squared (Brown et al., 1999). We find that, after controlling for scale, R-squared is lower for intangible-intensive industries than for non-intangible-intensive industries and has declined over time for intangible-intensive industries but remained stable for non-intangible-intensive industries. Interestingly, the declining trend ended with the demise of the “New Economy” period (NEP) (Core et al., 2003), and value relevance for both industry groups appears to be restored in the post-NEP to the pre-NEP level. We also find that R&D capitalization increases value relevance for intangible-intensive industries, but does not completely eliminate the gap between the two groups.

Keywords: value relevance, intangibles, variation in scale, expensing versus capitalization

JEL Classification: M41, O30

Suggested Citation:

Ciftci, Mustafa and Darrough, Masako N. and Mashruwala, Raj, Value Relevance of Accounting Information for Intangible-Intensive Industries and the Impact of Scale: The US Evidence (May 28, 2013). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2271384
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accounting for Intangible Assets: There is Also an Income Statement

By Stephen H. Penman

Intangibles in the Theories of the Firm

By Giuseppe Marzo

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies