Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The GAAP Lock-Out Effect and the Investment Behavior of Multinational Firms

67 Tax Law Review 211 (2014)

38 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2013 Last revised: 28 Aug 2014

Fadi Shaheen

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - School of Law, Newark

Abstract

This paper looks into the investment behavior of multinational firms with respect to their locked-out foreign earnings. The focus is on multinational firms subject to credit and deferral home-country taxation such as that of the United States. “Locked-out earnings” refers to the earnings of a foreign subsidiary that are reinvested abroad against the firm’s own real income (present value) interest to avoid the repatriation tax and the associated GAAP “penalty” or for any other reason. The paper extends the existing theoretical models beyond the optimal repatriation-versus-retention point to argue that from a real income perspective the primary choice of investment for locked-out earnings is no longer a function of the investment’s profitability, but of the type of the investment (active or passive) and the stage of its maturity as proxies for whether the returns on the investment would be repatriated. One example is that investing locked-out earnings in passive assets generally generates greater present value to the firm than does investing such earnings in the tax- and GAAP-advantaged, even if higher-returning, active assets. This in turn magnifies the conflict between real and book income considerations and can lead firms to act against their own real income interest also when reinvesting locked-out earnings, thereby generating efficiency costs not yet identified, both to the firms and to the economy in general. Identifying such distortions also reveals the misconception in downplaying the social efficiency costs associated with the lock-out effect.

Keywords: International taxation, foreign earnings, repatriation tax, CFC, subpart F, New View, GAAP, investment strategy, real income, book income, efficiency costs

JEL Classification: D92, E62, F23, F39, G15, G30, H20, H21, H22, H25, H26, H32, H8, K33, K34, L20, L21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Shaheen, Fadi, The GAAP Lock-Out Effect and the Investment Behavior of Multinational Firms. 67 Tax Law Review 211 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2271403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
See Id
, volume 482
Crossref
See Id
, p. 482 - 83
Crossref
See Shaviro
, volume 91 , p. 445 - 494
Crossref
See note 12 and accompanying text
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,271
RANK
197,664
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies