Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Earnings and Cash Flows Under International Financial Reporting Standards: The Case of Greece

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 9, No. 2, 2013

Posted: 30 May 2013

Konstantinos Papadatos

University of Patras - Department of Business Administration

Vasiliki Makri

University of Patras - Business Administration

Date Written: May 29, 2013

Abstract

The aim of this study is to investigate the value relevance of earnings and cash flows, after the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Greece. According to accounting literature, value relevance is defined as the ability of financial information contained in the financial statements to reflect the value of the company, when the latter is based on share prices. The presentation of yearly cross-sectional regressions for the period 2005 to 2010 revealed that cash flows under IFRS do not contain incremental information as compared to the earnings under IFRS, when both cash flows and earnings are included in the same model.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, earnings, cash flows, value relevance, incremental value relevance, mandatory adoption, Greek firms, Greece

Suggested Citation:

Papadatos, Konstantinos and Makri, Vasiliki, The Value Relevance of Earnings and Cash Flows Under International Financial Reporting Standards: The Case of Greece (May 29, 2013). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 9, No. 2, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2271477
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,292
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies