Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Ownership Structures of U.S. Multinational Firms

49 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2013

Katharina Lewellen

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Date Written: April 30, 2013

Abstract

This paper is a comprehensive analysis of the foreign ownership structures of U.S. multinational firms. Though the vast majority of foreign subsidiaries are ultimately wholly-owned by their U.S. parents, the way these entities are arranged within the firms’ ownership structures varies considerably from simple to highly complex. The structures receive public attention because of their role in tax planning, but no academic study to date investigates the trade-offs involved in designing them jointly, or documents what the structures look like for typical firms. This paper begins to fill this gap. After establishing a basic taxonomy and a set of key facts about the structures, we look inside the black box of complex firms to investigate what forces drive internal ownership choices. We find evidence of several distinct tax motives, but also uncover a number of non-tax factors, including internal financing costs and expropriation risks.

Keywords: Multinationals, Ownership Structures, Taxes

JEL Classification: G32, H25

Suggested Citation:

Lewellen, Katharina and Robinson, Leslie, Internal Ownership Structures of U.S. Multinational Firms (April 30, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2273553 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2273553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 Citations
Sunghoon Hong
Strategic Treaty Shopping
35 Pages · Posted: 15 May 2014 · Last revised: 11 Nov 2015 · Downloads: 570
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Niels Johannesen
Tax avoidance with cross-border hybrid instruments
Journal of Public Economics , volume 112 , p. 40 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Maggie Cooper , Quyen T.K. Nguyen
Multinational enterprises and corporate tax planning: A review of literature and suggestions for a future research agenda
International Business Review , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 101692 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Shafik Hebous , Niels Johannesen
At your service! The role of tax havens in international trade with services
European Economic Review , volume 135 , p. 103737 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,537
RANK
131,610
27 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Fiscal Paradise: Foreign Tax Havens and American Business

By James R. Hines Jr. and Eric M. Rice

Tax Policy and Foreign Direct Investment

By David G. Hartman

Altered States: Taxes and the Location of Foreign Direct Investment in America

By James R. Hines Jr.

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies