Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Causes and Consequences of Corporate Asset Exchanges by Listed Companies in China

International Review of Economics & Finance, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2013 Last revised: 3 Feb 2014

Fang Lou

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Economics

Jiwei Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Hongqi Yuan

Fudan University - School of Management

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

China’s listed companies often exchange corporate assets with unlisted affiliates, such as their parent companies, which is rarely observed in the United States. We find that listed companies that have been incompletely restructured from former state-owned enterprises and those that are in sound financial condition tend to exchange higher quality assets for lower quality assets (i.e., tunneling). However, when there is a need to avoid reporting a loss and to raise additional capital, listed companies tend to exchange lower quality assets for higher quality assets (i.e., propping). We also find that the market reacts indifferently to asset exchange announcements. Finally, we find asset exchanges motivated by a tunneling (propping) incentive to be associated with poorer (improved) post-exchange stock performance and financial performance. In summary, this study contributes to the corporate assets literature by providing two new incentives: tunneling and propping.

Keywords: Assets exchange, Tunneling, Propping

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G34

Suggested Citation:

Lou, Fang and Wang, Jiwei and Yuan, Hongqi, Causes and Consequences of Corporate Asset Exchanges by Listed Companies in China (2014). International Review of Economics & Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2274037 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2274037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,506
RANK
792,195
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies