Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigation of U.S. Home Bias in the Valuation of Canadian Natural Resource Firms: Choice of Reporting and Transaction Currency

Multinational Finance Journal, Vol. 17, No. 3/4, p. 201-241, 2013

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2274748

39 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2013 Last revised: 14 Nov 2014

Wendy Rotenberg

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 5, 2013

Abstract

This study explores whether the valuation of Canadian natural resource firms is related to their decisions to present financial reports in U.S. dollars or to allow dual currency (Canadian and U.S. dollar) trades of their shares in Canadian markets. The results indicate that firms electing to report their financial results in U.S. dollars do enjoy a higher proportion of U.S. trades, and a higher market value, compared with firms reporting in domestic currency. These findings are consistent with U.S. dollar reporting reducing the behavioral phenomenon known as “home bias”, for U.S. investors. In contrast, giving investors the opportunity to transact in U.S. dollars in Canada does not appear to have a beneficial impact. This latter finding is consistent with the practical observation that very few Canadian firms adopted dual currency trading. The dual currency trading experiment on the TSX appears to have failed.

Keywords: Home Bias, Reporting Currency, Dual Currency Trading

JEL Classification: G15, N20

Suggested Citation:

Rotenberg, Wendy, Mitigation of U.S. Home Bias in the Valuation of Canadian Natural Resource Firms: Choice of Reporting and Transaction Currency (June 5, 2013). Multinational Finance Journal, Vol. 17, No. 3/4, p. 201-241, 2013, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2274748, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2274748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Dependent Variable , = Tobin&apos;s Q , Where Tobin&apos;s Q =
D Amiram
Financial Information Globalization and Foreign Investment Decisions
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 81 Posted: 2012
Crossref
John Matthew Ammer , Sara B. Holland , David Carl Smith , Francis E. Warnock
Why Do U.S. Cross-Listings Matter?
FRB International Finance Discussion Paper No. 930 Pages: 38 Posted: 16 Jun 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Amoako-Adu , B Smith
Relative Prices of Dual-Class Shares
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , issue 30 , p. 223 - 239 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,006
RANK
564,240
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies