Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing and Sourcing Strategies for Multinational Firms

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-60

32 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2013

Masha Shunko

Foster School of Business, University of Washington

Laurens Debo

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

Srinagesh Gavirneni

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 28, 2013

Abstract

Taking advantage of low foreign tax rates using transfer pricing and taking advantage of low production costs using offshoring are two strategies multinational firms (MNFs) use to increase their profits. We identify an important trade-off that MNFs face in setting their transfer prices: the conflict between (i) the incentive role and (ii) the tax role played by the transfer price. For MNFs, we characterize transfer-pricing strategies that motivate divisional management to (i) make good sourcing decisions and (ii) take advantage of favorable tax rates. It is clear that using a dual transfer-pricing system, where one transfer price determines tax liability and the other transfer price determines management compensation will always achieve the first-best solution, but such an approach carries the burden of administrative and possibly punitive costs. In addition to finding the profit-maximizing sourcing and transfer-pricing policies for both single and dual transfer-pricing systems, we quantify the absolute and relative maximum inefficiency in terms of the after-tax MNF's profit change from using a single transfer-pricing system. We show that the highest relative loss is attained when the average outsourcing and offshoring costs, as well as the tax differential, are high. Using numerical experiments, we demonstrate that the absolute loss is attained when the outsourcing cost follows a symmetric distribution and the average outsourcing cost is approximately equal to the offshoring cost. We also extend our results to two practical variations of MNF structures: an MNF that faces operational constraints on its offshoring capacity and an MNF that uses compensation contracts linked to after-tax firm-wide profits. Insights from our analysis should help MNFs' managers identify when to use single and dual transfer-pricing systems.

Keywords: transfer pricing, tax, global operations, offshoring

Suggested Citation:

Shunko, Masha and Debo, Laurens and Gavirneni, Srinagesh, Transfer Pricing and Sourcing Strategies for Multinational Firms (May 28, 2013). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 13-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2275360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2275360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
394
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,682
RANK
83,866
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies