Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Two Steps Backward and One Step Forward: The IASB's Response to Off-Balance Sheet Financing Through Investments in Other Entities

Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 8, No. 1, 2013

22 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2013

Mark Hughes

University of Canberra

Simon Hoy

University of Canberra - School of Business and Government

Date Written: June 10, 2013

Abstract

In the wake of the Global Financial Crisis, a number of influential stakeholders called on the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to improve the quality of accounting rules relating to investments in other entities. This paper argues that rather than heeding these calls, the IASB’s response has led to an increase in opportunities for entities to engage in off-balance sheet financing through the use of potential voting rights and supermajorities. This paper demonstrates how the rules on potential voting rights have been relaxed and shows that under the comparatively more restrictive IAS 27, the use of supermajorities is already used by approximately 28 per cent of the top 100 Australian- listed companies, as these entities do not consolidate majority-held investees. Evidence is presented which indicates these entities tend to be larger, have less favourable leverage and have better efficiency ratios, compared to entities which do not disclose these structures. The paper also uses a case study to demonstrate the impact this variant of off-balance sheet financing can have on the general- purpose financial reports of investing companies.

Keywords: financial reporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hughes, Mark and Hoy, Simon, Two Steps Backward and One Step Forward: The IASB's Response to Off-Balance Sheet Financing Through Investments in Other Entities (June 10, 2013). Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 8, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2276785
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
D &amp; Alexander , E Jermakowicz
A True and Fair View of the Principles/Rules Debate
Abacus , volume 42 , p. 132 - 164 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Australian Accounting Standards Board 2004a, Accounting Standard AASB 127 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. Australian Accounting Standards Board 2004b, Accounting Standard AASB 128 Investments in Associates
Crossref
M Bauman
The Impact and Valuation of Off-Balance-Sheet Activities Concealed by Equity Method Accounting
Accounting Horizons , volume 17 , p. 303 - 314 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Comment Letter on IASB Discussion Paper: Preliminary Views on Financial Statement Presentation Nowalk Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,859
RANK
270,901
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies