Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contractibility and Transparency of Financial Statement Information Prepared under IFRS: Evidence from Debt Contracts around IFRS Adoption

Journal of Accounting Research (Forthcoming)

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 15-083

69 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2013 Last revised: 2 Nov 2015

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Xi Li

London School of Economics; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Lakshmanan Shivakumar

London Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 3, 2015

Abstract

A significant reduction in accounting-based debt covenants follows mandatory IFRS adoption, consistent with reduced contractibility of accounting information. We describe several properties of IFRS that could reduce contractibility, including increased flexibility given managers when selecting among and applying accounting rules, increased rule-making uncertainty, and increased emphasis on fair value accounting. The reduction in accounting covenant use is associated with measures of the difference between prior domestic standards and IFRS, defined in terms of both general and fair value accounting standards. Because IFRS adoption changed financial reporting in many ways simultaneously, it is difficult to trace the decline in accounting covenant use to individual IFRS properties, though we report larger declines in accounting covenant use in banks, which have a higher proportion of assets and liabilities that are fair-valued. Overall, IFRS rules appear to sacrifice debt contracting usefulness for objectives such as complying with an accounting measurement model focused on valuation uses.

Keywords: Bonds, Contractibility, Debt Covenants, Fair Value Accounting, IFRS, Loans, Transparency

JEL Classification: F34, G15, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray and Li, Xi and Shivakumar, Lakshmanan, Contractibility and Transparency of Financial Statement Information Prepared under IFRS: Evidence from Debt Contracts around IFRS Adoption (August 3, 2015). Journal of Accounting Research (Forthcoming), Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 15-083, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2278946 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2278946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,675
ABSTRACT VIEWS
22,037
RANK
11,631
47 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies