Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Comparability Under IFRS

34 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2013

Skrålan Vergauwe

KU Leuven

Ann Gaeremynck

KU Leuven

Date Written: June 20, 2013

Abstract

Proponents of IFRS argue that applying uniform accounting standards leads to comparable financial statements. While previous studies have illustrated that initial IFRS disclosure quality significantly varies upon IFRS adoption, there is little evidence whether disclosures become more comparable after IFRS adoption. Using hand-collected data on 18 disclosure items of European real estate firms over the period 2005 to 2010, we find that disclosures improve and become more comparable over time. Furthermore, our results suggest that an exogenous shock, such as the financial crisis, accelerates the process to better and more comparable disclosure practices. This process is more pronounced and faster for valuation-related than for general disclosures. These results are of interest in the debate whether a principles-based accounting framework such as IFRS can generate comparable information.

Keywords: IFRS, disclosure, comparability

JEL Classification: G10, G18, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Vergauwe, Skrålan and Gaeremynck, Ann, Disclosure Comparability Under IFRS (June 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2282593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2282593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
G Akerlof
The market for" lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited financial reporting and voluntary disclosure as complements: A test of the confirmation hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Barlev , J R Haddad
Harmonization, comparability, and fair value accounting
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 493 - 509 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M E. ; W H Barth , W R Beaver , Landsman ; W. Landsman , M Wayne , C W Landsman , Lang
Fair value accounting: evidence from investment securities and the market valuation of banks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,851
RANK
190,354
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies