Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Firms that Wish to Be Acquired Manage Their Earnings? Evidence from Major European Countries

International Review of Financial Analysis, vol. 30, pp. 57-68, 2013.

37 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2013 Last revised: 28 May 2014

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Andrianos E. Tsekrekos

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 21, 2013

Abstract

In this paper, we examine whether findings on downwards accrual-based earnings management for firms publicly ‘seeking a buyer’ from the US can be extrapolated outside of the US context, given that past research has indicated that the function of the Merger and Acquisition (M&A) markets is highly dependent on the degree of competition in a country. We test for the existence of earnings management (EM) around such events for firms listed in the largest European stock exchanges between 2000 and 2009, and get evidence that downwards earnings management around ‘seeking buyer’ announcements more strongly holds for the country with the most competitive market for corporate control in our sample, that is the UK. We consider this finding indicative of the fact that a competitive M&A environment may induce earnings management-prone behavior. We further testify significantly positive abnormal returns around ‘seeking buyer’ announcements for firms from the UK, but limited such evidence for the other countries, a finding we also attribute to differences in competition and uneven split of benefits among bidders and targets in M&A markets. Finally, we find that EM positively affects abnormal returns around ‘seeking buyer’ announcements, indicating that market participants tend to compensate for upwards EM, regardless of the degree of competition of the M&A market of a country.

Keywords: acquisition targets, seeking a buyer, takeovers, earnings management

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C. and Tsekrekos, Andrianos E., Do Firms that Wish to Be Acquired Manage Their Earnings? Evidence from Major European Countries (June 21, 2013). International Review of Financial Analysis, vol. 30, pp. 57-68, 2013., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2283271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Y Zhao , Chen , K
Staggered boards and earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 5 , p. 1347 - 1381 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Y Zhao , Chen , K
The influence of takeover protection on earnings management
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 35 , p. 347 - 375 Posted: 2008
Crossref
L Zucca , R Campbell
A closer look at discretionary writedowns of impaired assets
Accounting Horizons , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 40 - 41 Posted: 1992
Frankfurt and Milan stock exchanges that have publicly announced an intention 'to be acquired' between 2000 and 2009, for which the study data availability criteria are satisfied. Panel A reports ACAR aggregated across all countries/markets, while Panels B-E provides results for each country/market separately. In all Panels, firm and market returns [-240,-31] and [-340,-31] days prior to the announcement day respectively, are used in order to estimate the market model parameters, for inferring event-period firm abnormal returns. The standardized cross-sectional z statistic (SCS z-stat) of Boehmer et al. (1991), which accounts for event-induced changes in return variance, is used in determining the statistical significance of ACAR. An *, ** and *** indicates that the null hypothesis of a zero average is rejected at the 10%, 5% and 1% level of significance respectively. Panel A: All countries/markets Pre-announcement event period
The Table reports, for different event periods around the announcement day (day 0), average cumulative abnormal returns (ACAR) across companies listed in the London , volume 4
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,433
RANK
481,321
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies