Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation of the Valuation Relevance of Alternative Foreign Exchange Disclosures

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 22, 2005

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1094

Posted: 2 Jul 2013

Florin Sabac

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Thomas W. Scott

Independent

Heather A. Wier

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2004

Abstract

We demonstrate analytically and empirically that valuing a firm with foreign operations in the presence of exchange rate uncertainty requires information on the foreign operating cash flows disaggregated by currency and persistence. In particular, given consolidated earnings, investors need information on the exchange gain or loss on permanent foreign operating cash flows. We extend the model to show how the permanent foreign cash flows can be used to condition the change in the translation adjustment to make it value relevant; however, using the permanent foreign cash flows directly is superior for valuation. The empirical tests support our hypothesis that the market response to exchange rate movements is sensitive to the relative magnitudes of revenues and costs denominated in each foreign currency in which a firm has transactions. Disclosure of cash flows by currency should enhance the valuation of firms with foreign operations.

Keywords: foreign exchange, valuation, translation adjustment

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Sabac, Florin and Scott, Thomas W. and Wier, Heather A., An Investigation of the Valuation Relevance of Alternative Foreign Exchange Disclosures (June 1, 2004). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 22, 2005, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-1094, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2283389
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,128
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies