Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance and Geographic Earnings Disclosure

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2285110

54 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2013

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Mark (Shuai) Ma

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 25, 2013

Abstract

This study tests the relation between corporate tax avoidance and disclosure of geographic earnings for U.S. multinational companies. We find that after the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 in 1998, firms opting to discontinue disclosure of geographic earnings in their financial reports have lower worldwide effective tax rates. These results are consistent with managers perceiving that non-disclosure of geographic earnings helps mask tax avoidance behavior. However, the relation between tax avoidance and non-disclosure reduces after implementation of Schedule M-3 in the annual corporate tax filing beginning in 2004. Schedule M-3 requires a detailed reconciliation of book income to tax income and aims to make firms’ tax avoidance activities associated with shifting profits to lower-tax foreign jurisdictions more apparent to the IRS. This study contributes to our understanding of the relation between financial reporting behavior and tax reporting behavior.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Geographic Earnings Disclosure, SFAS 131, Schedule M-3, Research Design

JEL Classification: E62, F30, G30, G34, G38, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Ma, Mark (Shuai) and Thomas, Wayne B., Tax Avoidance and Geographic Earnings Disclosure (June 25, 2013). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2285110, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2285110
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), 2011. Comments on Schedule M-3 with the objective of reducing burden and duplication
Crossref
A Proposed International Accounting Standard. Reporting Turnover and Tax by Location Posted: 2003
P Austin
Optimal caliper widths for propensity-score matching when estimating differences in means and differences in proportions in observational studies
Pharmaceutical Statistics , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 150 - 161 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in U.S. and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
744
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,168
RANK
29,955
14 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies