Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Economic Integration on Accounting Comparability: Evidence from the Adoption of the Euro

35 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2013

Sudarshan Jayaraman

Simon Business School, University of Rochester; University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: June 28, 2013

Abstract

We examine the effect of economic integration on accounting comparability. Using the adoption of the euro as a shock to economic integration, we document two effects. First, we show a direct effect around the adoption of the euro – accounting comparability increases among industries in adopting countries relative to those in non-adopting ones and this effect is driven by increases in arm’s length financing. Second, economic integration also has an interactive effect, by influencing the effect of accounting standards harmonization (proxied by IFRS adoption) on accounting comparability. Specifically, the effect of IFRS adoption on accounting comparability is approximately three times larger for euro members than it is for non-euro members. Our paper highlights the role of economic integration and its interplay with accounting standards harmonization in shaping accounting comparability.

Keywords: Accounting comparability, Euro, European Union, accounting standard, reporting incentives

JEL Classification: M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Verdi, Rodrigo S., The Effect of Economic Integration on Accounting Comparability: Evidence from the Adoption of the Euro (June 28, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2286699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2286699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,679
RANK
166,710
4 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies