Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Country Differences in Enforcement of Accounting Standards: An Audit and Enforcement Proxy

FIRN Research Paper

68 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2013 Last revised: 24 Apr 2014

Philip R. Brown

UWA Business School, M250; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

John P. Preiato

The University of Western Australia

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Date Written: December 10, 2013

Abstract

In this paper we present an index designed to capture differences between countries in relation to the institutional setting for financial reporting, specifically the auditing of financial statements and the enforcement of compliance with each country’s accounting standards. The adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) aims, in broad terms, to promote the comparability and transparency of financial statements and to improve the quality of financial reporting. However, the effectiveness of IFRS adoption is believed to be hampered by differences, across countries, in the institutional setting in which financial reporting occurs. Studies of the impact of IFRS have used a range of proxies to capture these country differences, but the proxies seldom focus explicitly on factors that affect how compliance with accounting standards is promoted through external audit and the activities of independent enforcement bodies. To address this deficiency, we calculate measures of the quality of public company audits (AUDIT) and the degree of accounting enforcement activity (ENFORCE) for 51 countries for each of the years 2002, 2005 and 2008, using publicly available data provided by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the World Bank and the national securities regulators. Our aim in constructing and publishing our index is to make available, to researchers and other interested parties, country-level enforcement measures that are more obviously focused on financial reporting practices.

Keywords: security market regulation, external audit, IFRS, compliance, enforcement, accounting quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, K20

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Philip R. and Preiato, John P. and Tarca, Ann, Measuring Country Differences in Enforcement of Accounting Standards: An Audit and Enforcement Proxy (December 10, 2013). FIRN Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2286029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2286029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,595
RANK
40,557
24 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies