Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Networks in the Global Banking Sector

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

70 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2013 Last revised: 8 Oct 2017

Joel F. Houston

University of Florida - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate

Jongsub Lee

Seoul National University; University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Felix Suntheim

International Monetary Fund (IMF) - Monetary and Capital Markets Department

Date Written: October 5, 2017

Abstract

We show that banks with shared social connections partner more often in the global syndicated loan market and that central banks in the network play dominant roles in various interbank transactions, indicating that social connections facilitate business connections. However, more centralized banks in the network also contribute significantly to the global systemic risk. Moreover, we find the soft information generated by social networks is particularly valuable when potential partners operate under different accounting and regulatory standards. Finally, we show that the recent banking crisis significantly limited the positive soft information effects of social networks in the global banking system.

Keywords: Top global banks, director social networks, pairwise connection, network centrality, loan syndication, systemic risk, IFRS, bank regulation, financial crisis

JEL Classification: G20, G24, G28

Suggested Citation:

Houston, Joel F. and Lee, Jongsub and Suntheim, Felix, Social Networks in the Global Banking Sector (October 5, 2017). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2288134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2288134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Acemoglu , A Ozdaglar , A Tahbaz-Salehi
Systemic risk and stability in financial networks. The american economic review , volume 105 , p. 564 - 608 Posted: 2015
V Acharya , H Mehran , A Thakor
Caught Between Scylla and Charybdis? Regulating Bank Leverage When There is Rent-seeking and Risk-shifting. Unpublished Working Paper Posted: 2012
Crossref
T Adrian , M K Brunnermeier
CoV aR. Unpublished Working Paper Posted: 2011
G Afonso , A Kovner , A Schoar
Stressed, not Frozen: The Federal Funds Market in the Financial Crisis
The Journal of Finance , volume 66 , p. 1109 - 1139 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
700
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,914
RANK
84,642
20 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies