Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of More Rules-Based Guidance on Expense Disclosure Under International Financial Reporting Standards

Accounting & Finance, DOI: 10.1111/acfi.12037

Posted: 3 Aug 2013 Last revised: 7 Aug 2013

Lisa Crawford

University of Otago

David H. Lont

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Tom Scott

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: August 2, 2013

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are often described as principles-based; however, we show that IFRS and Australian pre-IFRS expense-related standards are more rules-based than pre-IFRS expense disclosure in New Zealand. Thus, we examine expense disclosure in New Zealand and Australia around IFRS adoption to provide evidence on the effect of more or less rules-based standards on voluntary disclosure. First, we add to the rules versus principles-based standards debate by finding higher voluntary expense disclosure under more rules-based standards (e.g. IFRS). This contrasts with expectations, as we would expect fewer voluntary disclosures under more rules-based standards as there would be fewer possible voluntary disclosures. Second, we document that New Zealand firms have significantly less voluntary expense disclosure than size- and industry-matched Australian firms in both the pre- and post-IFRS period. However, all measures of expense disclosure significantly improved post-IFRS for New Zealand, whilst little change occurred for Australian firms. Thus, there is greater financial statement comparability across these countries post-IFRS, but not full harmonization. Third, we show that the relationship between most firm characteristics and expense disclosure is weaker post-IFRS. In addition, cross-listed firms and loss-making firms have a higher level of expense disclosure, as contrasted with firms in the investment and property industry which have a lower percentage of unspecified expenses but also report fewer voluntary expenses.

Keywords: disclosure, IFRS, principles versus rules, harmonization

Suggested Citation:

Crawford, Lisa and Lont, David H. and Scott, Tom, The Effect of More Rules-Based Guidance on Expense Disclosure Under International Financial Reporting Standards (August 2, 2013). Accounting & Finance, DOI: 10.1111/acfi.12037, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2305393
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
877
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies