Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stewardship and Value Relevance in Accounting for the Depletion of Purchased Goodwill

Revised version forthcoming in Accounting for M&A: Uses and Abuses of Accounting in Monitoring and Promoting Merger, Routledge Studies in Accounting , Routledge, 2020.

51 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2013 Last revised: 24 Apr 2020

Amir Amel-Zadeh

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Jonathan Faasse

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Kevin Li

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Geoff Meeks

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Date Written: June 1, 2018

Abstract

Concerns have been raised in the academic and practitioner literatures of accounting that, in general, standard-setters have increasingly neglected stewardship and reliability in pursuit of value-relevance; and then, in particular, that current accounting for the vast sums now expended on purchased goodwill accords too much discretion to manager-agents/stewards, and is weak on verification – allowing them to mislead their investor-principals. This case of purchased goodwill is especially significant because the literatures of finance and industrial organization report that stewardship, or principal-agent, problems are rife in the M&A market. In the light of calls for changed priorities, this paper analyses an experiment with an alternative standard for the depletion of purchased goodwill designed to hold managers to account for every pound of spending on goodwill, and to secure more rigorous verification of goodwill impairments. Triangulated econometric exercises suggest that in the world’s second largest M&A market this alternative, twin instrument, regime secured value-relevant reporting while mitigating stewardship problems.

Keywords: standard-setting; M&A; reliability; value-relevance; stewardship; goodwill

JEL Classification: G14, G18, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Amel-Zadeh, Amir and Faasse, Jonathan and Li, Kevin and Meeks, Geoff, Stewardship and Value Relevance in Accounting for the Depletion of Purchased Goodwill (June 1, 2018). Revised version forthcoming in Accounting for M&A: Uses and Abuses of Accounting in Monitoring and Promoting Merger, Routledge Studies in Accounting , Routledge, 2020., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2306584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2306584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
869
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,716
RANK
63,599
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies