Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption in Brazil (2010): Index of Compliance with Disclosure Requirements and Explanatory Factors of Firms Reporting

Santos, E. S.; Ponte, V. M. R.; Mapurunga, P. V. Mandatory IFRS Adoption in Brazil (2010): Index of Compliance with Disclosure Requirements and Explanatory Factors of Firms Reporting. Revista Contabilidade e Finanças, 2014. Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2013 Last revised: 18 Aug 2014

Edilene Santana Santos

Fundacao Getulio Vargas (EAESP); Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Sao Paulo School of Business Administration

Vera Ponte

Universidade Federal do Ceará

Patricia Mapurunga

Independent

Date Written: January 5, 2013

Abstract

We evaluated firms’ compliance with required International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) disclosure in the first mandatory adoption year of IFRS in Brazil (2010) by comprehensively examining 638 disclosure required items from 28 encompassing IFRSs in the Notes to Financial Statements of all (366) Brazilian non-financial corporations listed on the Brazilian stock exchange (BM&FBovespa). We measured disclosure compliance levels by calculating the respective index, both overall and for each standard, and investigated associations between disclosure levels and firm’s characteristics as potential explanatory disclosure compliance factors. Our findings showed overall low levels of disclosure compliance in the analyzed year: the average level of compliance with IFRS required disclosure was very sensitive to the approach employed, varying from 16.04% (strict criterion and dichotomous approach) to 33.72% (tolerant criterion and partial compliance unweighted approach). In line with other countries experience illustrated by the international literature, these results emphasize the importance of increasing institutional support conditions for enhanced enforcement mechanisms, enabling the Brazilian firms to better attain the full economic benefits of IFRS adoption. In all our analyses, company size and “Big 4” auditing were positively associated with the dependent variable, independent of the model employed to determine the compliance disclosure index, making it possible to conclude that these factors produce a significant positive impact on compliance with the IFRS disclosure requirement levels of Brazilian firms.

Keywords: compliance, mandatory disclosure, explanatory factors, IFRS, Brazil

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Santos, Edilene Santana and Ponte, Vera and Mapurunga, Patricia, Mandatory IFRS Adoption in Brazil (2010): Index of Compliance with Disclosure Requirements and Explanatory Factors of Firms Reporting (January 5, 2013). Santos, E. S.; Ponte, V. M. R.; Mapurunga, P. V. Mandatory IFRS Adoption in Brazil (2010): Index of Compliance with Disclosure Requirements and Explanatory Factors of Firms Reporting. Revista Contabilidade e Finanças, 2014. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2310625 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2310625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
G Akerlof
The market for "lemons": quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
J J Archambaut , M E Archambaut
A multinational test of determinants of corporate disclosure
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 194 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
8 Citations
N Grace Ofoegbu , Ndubuisi Odoemelam , Collins G. Ntim
International financial reporting standards (IFRS) disclosure and performance of Nigeria listed companies
Cogent Business & Management , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 1542967 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Lucie Brabcová
Compliance with IAS7 by Issuers of Listed Securities in the Czech Republic
European Financial and Accounting Journal , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 73 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Sónia Fernandes , Isabel Lourenço
Determinants of compliance with mandatory disclosure: Research evidence
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 91 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Rute Gonçalves , Patrícia Lopes
Firm-specific Determinants of Agricultural Financial Reporting
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 110 , p. 470 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
532
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,668
RANK
120,303
8 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies