Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Ownership Patterns in Selected African Countries: The Role of Firm, Industry and Country Characteristics

26 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2013

Tesfaye Taddese Lemma

Towson University

Minga Negash

Metropolitan State University of Denver; University of the Witwatersrand

Date Written: August 14, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines the interplay between firm, industry and country level variables, on the one hand, and equity ownership patterns, on the other within the context of six African countries. Using multi-dimensional models developed through triangulation of a range corporate ownership structure theories, a battery of estimation procedures, and data pertaining to 377 non-financial firms across a time period of 15 years (1996-2010), we find evidence that corporate ownership patterns are explained by firm specific variables such as leverage, debt maturity, institutional ownership, firm size, profitability, and firm age. We also document evidence that industry regulations, severity of corruption, orientation of the financial system, and the size of the overall economy are all factors that determine ownership patterns on the African continent.

Keywords: ownership concentration, block shareholding, developing countries, Africa, ownership patterns

JEL Classification: G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Lemma, Tesfaye Taddese and Negash, Minga, Equity Ownership Patterns in Selected African Countries: The Role of Firm, Industry and Country Characteristics (August 14, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2310245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2310245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R V Aguilera , De , L R K Castro , R C Cladera
Uncertainty and corporate ownership: Evidence from Emerging Markets Posted: 2011
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate goverance: dimensions and determinants
The Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
Comparative and international corporate governance
The Academy of Management Annals , volume 4 , p. 485 - 556 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Jaakko Aspara , Henrikki Tikkanen
Corporate Marketing in the Stock Market: The Impact of Company Identification on Individuals’ Investment Behaviour
European Journal of Marketing, Forthcoming · 40 Pages · Posted: 28 Aug 2010 · Downloads: 240
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,905
RANK
409,562
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies