Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards and German Supplementary Pensions: The Emerging Framework Underpinning Global Finance

Working Paper No. 00-05

45 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2000

Gordon L. Clark

Oxford University - Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment

Daniel Mansfield

University of Bristol - School of Geographical Sciences

Adam Tickell

University of Bristol - School of Geographical Sciences

Date Written: June 30, 2000

Abstract

In this paper we focus on the current status of German employer-sponsored supplementary pensions in the context of moves towards the harmonization of international accounting standards. We emphasize the changing standards used to measure pension liability, and the consequences of these changes for (firstly) corporate management discretion and (secondly) German under-funded systems of defined benefit pensions. In combination, we show that claimed historical differences between the Anglo-American market for corporate control and the German system of entrenched management within interlocking boards of supervision are now less compelling than assumed. Adoption of international and US financial accounting standards by leading German corporations presages a new era in European capital markets with important implications for the design and management of German supplementary pensions. The reader is introduced to financial accounting standards institutions, the evolution of US accounting standards since the introduction of FASB 87 and recent patterns in US corporate pension assets and liabilities. Emphasis is placed upon the concerted campaign of national and international accounting professionals to harmonise corporate accounting practices and the measurement of pension liabilities to accepted international standards. Using data collected from 1998 annual reports for German firms in the DAX 30 index, we report on the adoption of international accounting standards and the scope and significance of reported corporate net pension liabilities. Noting the theoretical literature relevant to adoption, we identify four reasons that may account for the immediate adoption of international accounting standards. As well, tests for correlation between net pension liabilities and indicators of corporate financial performance are developed. In conclusion, implications are drawn for management discretion and the future of German defined benefit pension systems.

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G23, G28, G34, L33

Suggested Citation:

Clark, Gordon L. and Mansfield, Daniel and Tickell, Adam, Accounting Standards and German Supplementary Pensions: The Emerging Framework Underpinning Global Finance (June 30, 2000). Working Paper No. 00-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=231090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.231090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Anat R. Admati , Paul C. Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
Pages: 43 Posted: 31 Jul 1998
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
F Allen , D Gale , M Roe
A theory of path dependence in corporate governance and ownership. Mimeo. Cambridge MA: Harvard Law School, Harvard University Berndt, C. 1998a. Ruhr firms between dynamic change and structural persistenceglobalization, the 'German Model' and regional place-dependence
Transactions, Institute of British Geographers NS , volume 23 , p. 331 - 52 Posted: 1994
C Berndt
A model under siege: a case study of the German retirement insurance system
Corporate Germany at the crossroads? Americanization, competitiveness and place dependence. Working Paper 98. Cambridge: ESRC Centre for Business Research Bloomer, C. (Ed.) 1999. The IASC-US Comparison Project: A Report on the Similarities and Differences between IASC Standards and US GAAP , volume 110 , p. 24 - 45 Posted: 1983
J Braithwaite , P Drahos
Global Business Regulation Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,619
RANK
142,697
3 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Globalization and Growth in the Twentieth Century

By Nicholas Crafts

Foreign Direct Investment and Poverty Reduction

By Michael U. Klein, Carl Aaron, ...

European Pensions and Global Finance: Continuity or Convergence?

By Gordon L. Clark

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies