Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of National Culture on Accounting Conservatism and Risk Taking in the Banking Industry

The Accounting Review, Vol. 89, No. 3, pp. 1115-1149, 2014

57 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2013 Last revised: 3 Mar 2021

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

Using an international sample of banks and country-level indices for individualism and uncertainty avoidance as proxies for national culture, we study how differences in culture across countries affect accounting conservatism and bank risk taking. Consistent with expectations, our cross-country analysis indicates that individualism is negatively (positively) related to conservatism (risk taking) and uncertainty avoidance is positively (negatively) related to conservatism (risk taking). We also find that cultures that encourage higher risk taking experienced more bank failures and bank troubles during the recent financial crisis.

Keywords: National culture, Accounting Conservatism, Risk taking, Individualism, Uncertainty avoidance, Banking

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G34

Suggested Citation:

Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lim, Chee Yeow and Lobo, Gerald J., Influence of National Culture on Accounting Conservatism and Risk Taking in the Banking Industry (July 1, 2013). The Accounting Review, Vol. 89, No. 3, pp. 1115-1149, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2319548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2319548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A Demirguc-Kunt , E Kane , L Laeven
Determinants of deposit-insurance adoption Posted: 2008
Crossref
T M Liao
Interpreting Probability Models: Logit, Probit, and Other Generalized Linear Models
University Paper Series on Quantitative Applications in the Social Sciences , p. 7 - 101 Posted: 1994
A Licht , C Goldschmidt , S H Schwartz
Culture, law, and corporate governance
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 229 - 255 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Merton
An analytical derivation of the cost of deposit insurance and loan guarantees
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 11 Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,298
RANK
36,298
19 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Bank Governance, Regulation, and Risk Taking

By Luc Laeven and Ross Levine

Bank Governance, Regulation, and Risk Taking

By Luc Laeven and Ross Levine

Bank CEO Incentives and the Credit Crisis

By Rüdiger Fahlenbrach and René M. Stulz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies