Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing and Debt Shifting in Multinationals

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4381

26 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2013

Dirk Schindler

Erasmus School of Economics; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Guttorm Schjelderup

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Business and Management Science

Date Written: August 30, 2013

Abstract

There is a growing concern that governments lose substantial corporate tax revenue because of profit shifting through transfer-pricing and thin-capitalization strategies. Existing literature studies profit shifting and transfer pricing separately. In practice, the choice of debt-to-asset ratios in affiliates and the transfer price of debt are interrelated management decisions that are also mutually affected by government regulation. This paper models these strategies as intertwined. We find that the tax sensitivity of the corporate tax base depends on whether the debt shifting and transfer pricing are cost complements or substitutes. A second result is that stricter regulation of debt shifting (transfer pricing) can potentially increase the use of transfer pricing (debt shifting) and thus the amount of profits shifted.

Keywords: multinational corporations, profit shifting, debt shifting, concealment costs

JEL Classification: H250, F230, D210

Suggested Citation:

Schindler, Dirk and Schjelderup, Guttorm, Transfer Pricing and Debt Shifting in Multinationals (August 30, 2013). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4381, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2319873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2319873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R Aggarwal , N A Kyaw
Capital Structure, Dividend Policy and Multinationality: Theory versus Empirical Evidence
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 19 , p. 140 - 150 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
E J Bartelsman , R M W J Beetsma
Why Pay More? Corporate Tax Avoidance Through Transfer-pricing in OECD Countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 2225 - 2252 Posted: 2003
Crossref
T Bergin
Tax-free Latte. Starbucks Slips the UK Tax Hook. Reuters Special Report Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
589
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,013
RANK
105,672
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies