Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
NIIF Para PYMES: Movimiento Fortuito O Ruta A La Convergencia? (IFRS for SME’s: Fashion Movement or Route to Convergence)

Revista Global de Negocios, Vol. 2 (1) p. 41-54, 2014

14 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2014

Aida Lozada Rivera

University of Puerto Rico

Carmen Ríos-Figueroa

Universidad del Este

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Spanish Abstract: En el 2009 la Junta de Normas de Contabilidad Internacional, (IASB) (por sus siglas en inglés) emitió las NIIF para las pequeñas y medianas empresas (PYMES). De acuerdo con la firma Deloitte (2012), más del 50% de las compañías de Global Fortune 500 usan las NIIF para la divulgación de información financiera. La IASB estima que el 95% de las empresas en el mundo son PYMES. Consciente de las necesidades de divulgación de éstas, la Junta les ha creado unas reglas menos complicadas. Las NIIF dirigidas a las PYMES representan una simple opción en comparación con las NIIF emitidas a empresas multinacionales y públicas, (EM). La literatura actual muestra estudios relacionados a la adopción de las NIIF para PYMES en EE.UU y en países que actualmente están en proceso de adoptar éstas. Es pertinente estudiar la utilidad de estas normas. Para contribuir a la literatura, además de estudiar el trasfondo, se presenta un análisis comparativo sobre si los países que usan las NIIF para empresas públicas también han adoptado las NIIF para PYMES. Una comparación entre las NIIF para EM y las NIIF para PYMES es relevante con relación a la complejidad de áreas que han sido excluidas de esta última. El estudio sugiere ideas para futuras investigaciones académicas en el área de contabilidad.

English Abstract: In 2009 the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued IFRS for small and medium enterprises (SMEs). According to Deloitte (2012), more than 50% of Fortune Global 500 companies use IFRS for financial disclosure. The IASB believes that 95% of companies in the world are SME’s. Aware of the need to disclose this, the Board had created less complicated rules. IFRS for SMEs represent a simple choice compared to IFRS issued to multinational and public companies. Current literature shows studies related to the adoption of IFRS for SMEs in the US and in countries that are currently in the process of adopting them. It is pertinent to study the usefulness of these rules. To contribute to the literature, in addition to studying the background, the article presents a comparative analysis of countries that use IFRS for public companies and their adoption status of IFRS for SMEs. A comparison of IFRS for Multinational Enterprises and the IFRS for PYMES is relevant in relation to the complexity of issues that have been excluded from the latter. The study suggests ideas for future academic research in the area of accounting.

Note: Downloadable document is in Spanish.

Keywords: IFRS, SME’s, Full IFRS, IFRS for SME’s

JEL Classification: F20, F23, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lozada Rivera, Aida and Ríos-Figueroa, Carmen, NIIF Para PYMES: Movimiento Fortuito O Ruta A La Convergencia? (IFRS for SME’s: Fashion Movement or Route to Convergence) (2014). Revista Global de Negocios, Vol. 2 (1) p. 41-54, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2325008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
R Adlung , M Soprana
Staff Working Paper ERSD-2012-09, World Trade Organization, Economic Research and Statistics Division SMEs in Services Trade -A GATS Perspective, World Trade Organization, Manuscript date: 27 de Abril de 2012 Posted: 2010
R Ball
International Financing Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
H Bohusova , P Svodoba
Comparability of Financial Statements Prepared According to IFRS and IFRS for SMEs in the Field of Intangible Assets
The Business Review , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 239 - 244 Posted: 2010
S Briciu , C Groza , I Ganfalean
International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) will Support Management Accounting System for Small and Medium Enterprise (SME)?
Annales Universitatis Apulensis Series Oeconomica , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 308 - 317 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,188
RANK
328,705
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies