Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Predictive Ability of Direct Cash Flow Information Under IFRS

28 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2013

Alan J. Duboisée de Ricquebourg

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Iain Clacher

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Date Written: September 16, 2013

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the predictive ability of direct cash flow information under IFRS. Employing a combination of in- and out-of-sample cross sectional models, we provide the first empirical evidence on the predictive ability of direct cash flow information in an IFRS environment. Under IFRS, our models show the greatest explanatory power and lowest forecast errors when utilising information found only in a direct cash flow statement. Crucially, after controlling for size, we note that while our direct cash flow models report lower forecast errors for large firms, they produce no better forecasts for small firms than a parsimonious operating cash flow model. While confirming the predictive ability of direct cash flow information in an IFRS setting, our results question the benefit of the IASB and FASB mandating direct cash flow statements for small firms.

Keywords: Statement of cash flows, Direct method, Cash flow forecasts, International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS

JEL Classification: G24, G29, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Duboisée de Ricquebourg, Alan J. and Clacher, Iain, An Analysis of the Predictive Ability of Direct Cash Flow Information Under IFRS (September 16, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2326499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2326499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
N Arthur , M Cheng , R Czernkowski
Cash Flow Disaggregation and the Prediction of Future Earnings
Accounting & Finance , volume 50 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2010
Crossref
N Arthur , G C Chuang , .-H
IAS 7 Alternative Methods of Disclosing Cash Flow from Operations: Evidence on the Usefulness of Direct Method Cash Flow Disclosures Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting & Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,788
RANK
276,301
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies