Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of Cost Behavior for Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2013 Last revised: 10 Feb 2015

Mustafa Ciftci

American University of Sharjah - School of Business and Management

Raj Mashruwala

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Dan Weiss

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Date Written: September 17, 2013

Abstract

Recent work in management accounting offers several novel insights into firms’ cost behavior. This study explores whether financial analysts appropriately incorporate information on two types of cost behavior in predicting earnings - cost variability and cost stickiness. Since analysts’ utilization of information is not directly observable, we model the process of earnings prediction to generate empirically testable hypotheses. The results indicate that analysts “converge to the average” in recognizing both cost variability and cost stickiness, resulting in substantial and systematic earnings forecast errors. Particularly, we find a clear pattern - inappropriate incorporation of available information on cost behavior in earnings forecasts leads to larger errors in unfavorable scenarios than in favorable ones. Overall, enhancing analysts’ awareness of the expense side is likely to improve their earnings forecasts, mainly when sales turn to the worse.

Keywords: cost stickiness, cost variability, analysts’ earnings forecasts, expense forecasts

JEL Classification: M41, M46, G12

Suggested Citation:

Ciftci, Mustafa and Mashruwala, Raj and Weiss, Dan, Implications of Cost Behavior for Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts (September 17, 2013). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2327167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2327167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M A Anderson , D ; R , ; Banker , S Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M A Anderson , R D Banker , R Huang , S Janakiraman
Cost behavior and fundamental analysis of SG&A costs
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 22 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Balakrishnan , T S Gruca
Cost stickiness and core competency: a note
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 993 - 1006 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rajiv D. Banker , Dmitri Byzalov
Asymmetric Cost Behavior
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 43 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
759
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,878
RANK
76,249
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Amount and Sources of Income of Older Households in Mexico

By Alicia Rodriguez-flores and Sharon A. Devaney

Political Body in Research into, and Praxis of, Religious (In)Tolerance: The Complexity of the Last Three Centuries Transylvania Case, till 1956

By Nicolae Bulz

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies