Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are International Accounting Standards More Credit Relevant than Domestic Standards?

Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research

50 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2013 Last revised: 6 Dec 2016

Annita Florou

Bocconi University

Urska Kosi

Paderborn University; University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: October 1, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether the credit relevance of financial statements, defined as the ability of accounting numbers to explain credit ratings, is higher after firms are required to report under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). We find an improvement in credit relevance for firms in seventeen countries after mandatory IFRS reporting is introduced in 2005; this increase is higher than that reported for a matched sample of US firms. The increase in credit relevance is particularly pronounced for higher risk speculative-grade issuers, where accounting information is predicted to be more important; and for IFRS adopters with large first-time reconciliations, where the impact of IFRS is expected to be greater. These tests provide reassurance that the overall enhancement in estimated credit relevance is driven by accounting changes related to IFRS adoption. Our results suggest that credit rating analysts’ views of economic fundamentals are more closely aligned with IFRS numbers, and that analysts anticipate at least some of the effects of the IFRS transition.

Keywords: IFRS, debt markets, credit ratings, credit relevance

JEL Classification: G15, G33, K20, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Florou, Annita and Kosi, Urska and Pope, Peter F., Are International Accounting Standards More Credit Relevant than Domestic Standards? (October 1, 2016). Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2330756 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2330756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
C Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effects of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: the impact on foreign analysts
Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , R Askon , G Sadka
Is financial reporting shaped by equity markets or by debt markets? An international study of timeliness and conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,684
RANK
174,067
8 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies