Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe

ESSEC Working Paper 1311

42 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2013 Last revised: 10 Jan 2014

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Date Written: August 27, 2013

Abstract

We study the effect of the mandatory adoption of IFRS in Europe in 2005 on conditional conservatism. To capture conditional conservatism, we use three measures: the Basu (1997) measure, the Khan and Watts (2009) measure, and a measure controlling for potential shifts in unconditional conservatism and cost of capital after the adoption of IFRS. From a sample of 7,251 firm-year observations drawn from 16 European countries, we document an overall decline of the degree of conditional conservatism across our three measures. While there is no change in weak enforcement/governance countries which remain less conditionally conservative than strong enforcement/governance countries, the latter exhibit a significant decrease. Further, we demonstrate that the decline is more significant for firms carrying intangible assets and goodwill in their balance sheets, items for which impairment tests rely on unverifiable fair value estimates. We argue that IFRS are conceptually conditionally conservative but that inappropriate application of conditional conservatism principles may have prevented financial reporting from reaching the level of conservatism targeted by the IASB.

Keywords: Conditional Conservatism, IFRS, Europe, Enforcement, Governance, Intangibles, Impairment

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G38

Suggested Citation:

Andre, Paul and Filip, Andrei and Paugam, Luc, Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe (August 27, 2013). ESSEC Working Paper 1311, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2333532 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2333532
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
H Amiraslani , G E Iatridis , P F Pope
Accounting for asset impairment: A test for IFRS compliance across Europe, A research report by the centre for Financial Aanalysis and Reporting Research
Cass Business School Posted: 2013
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R M Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in Governance Practices between U.S. and Foreign Firms: Measurement, Causes, and Consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , V V Nikolaev
On estimating conditional conservatism
Accounting Review , volume 88 , p. 755 - 787 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,724
RANK
278,525
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies