Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Costs of Mandatory IFRS: Evidence of Reduced Accrual Reliability

42 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2013

Cheng Y. Lai

University of New South Wales - Australian School of Business

Yang Li

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Yaowen Shan

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: October 2, 2013

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on accrual reliability (Richardson et al. 2005). Using a large sample of Australian firm years drawn from before and after the mandatory adoption of IFRS, we find that accrual reliability declined significantly after mandatory IFRS implementation. Working capital, non-current operating, and financing accruals all contribute to this decline. We also find that brand name audit firms (i.e., the Big four) are able to significantly attenuate any decrease in accrual reliability during the post-IFRS period. Our results contrast with evidence identifying benefits of mandatory IFRS such as increased value relevance, but are consistent with at least some degree of trade-off between relevance and reliability. Such trade-offs seem to have been largely ignored in prior examinations of the impact of mandatory IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS, accrual reliability, audit quality

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Cheng Y. and Li, Yang and Shan, Yaowen and Taylor, Stephen L., Costs of Mandatory IFRS: Evidence of Reduced Accrual Reliability (October 2, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2334811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2334811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M J Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence. Contemporary Accounting Research. Epub ahead of print 10 Posted: 2012-09
Crossref
Allen F Carletti , E
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Asthana Sc , Q Y Zhang
Effect of R&D investments on persistence of abnormal earnings
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 124 - 139 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,472
RANK
285,369
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies