Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS 7 and Risk Disclosure Policies: A Cross-Sectional Analysis of Italian Listed Banks

China-USA Business Review, April 2013, Vol. 12, No. 4, 409-426

20 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2013

Sabrina Pucci

University of Rome III

Marco Tutino

Roma Tre University - Department of Business Studies

Date Written: April 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper has a double aim, to give a theoretical evaluation of the disclosure model chosen by IASB referring to market risks of financial instruments and to analyze the practical solutions adopted in the case of a sample of listed banks and compliance of the information referring to risk in the “Notes” with the requirements of IFRS 7. In order to investigate the effectiveness of “IFRS 7, Financial Instruments”, the research has been conducted considering Annual Report of a sample of 17 banking companies, all listed in the three-year period (2008-2010) in Italian financial markets. Studying a three-year period should reveal the performance of IFRS 7 in fostering market discipline by pressing banks to disclose more information regarding risk profile elements, mainly considering market risks such as interest rate risk, currency risk, and price risk, and then making financial disclosure more transparent. A content analysis has been adopted through a cross-sectional and time series study. The results underline that IFRS 7 improves the disclosure of market risks in financial statements compared with previous years even if a better equilibrium between qualitative and quantitative information could be found. In the sample analysed, substantial compliance with IFRS 7 requirements has been found, except for some particularly sensitive information. In some cases quantitative information cannot be considered sufficient to inform on potential impact of changes in risks exposure on the actual and expected value of income and equity of entities.

Keywords: IFRS 7, financial instruments, risk management, risk disclosure, accounting principles, banks

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pucci, Sabrina and Tutino, Marco, IFRS 7 and Risk Disclosure Policies: A Cross-Sectional Analysis of Italian Listed Banks (April 1, 2013). China-USA Business Review, April 2013, Vol. 12, No. 4, 409-426, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2334121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Report of the task force on risks and uncertainties Posted: 1987
E Bartov , S R Goldberg , M Kim
Comparative value relevance among German, US and International Accounting Standards: A German stock perspective
Journal of International Accounting Auditing & Taxation , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Bayou , A Reistein , P F Williams
To tell the truth: A discussion on issues concerning truth and ethics in accounting. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 36 , p. 109 - 124 Posted: 2011
Crossref
V Beattie , W Mcinnes , S Fearnley
A methodology for analyzing and evaluating narratives in annual reports: A comprehensive descriptive profile and metrics for disclosure quality attributes
Accounting Forum , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 205 - 236 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,127
RANK
206,880
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies