Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of International Accounting Standards in Transitional Economies: A Study of the People's Republic of China

46 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2000

Elizabeth A. Eccher

Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Paul M. Healy

Harvard Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: June 2000

Abstract

This paper examines the usefulness of International Accounting Standards (IAS) in a transitional economy, the People's Republic of China (PRC). Using a sample of firms that provide financial reports under both IAS and more rigid local PRC standards, we conclude that information produced using IAS is no more useful than that prepared using Chinese standards. First, there is no difference in the explanatory power of IAS and PRC accruals for future cash flows. Second, for stocks that can only be owned by international investors, IAS and PRC earnings and accruals have a similar association with annual stock returns. Finally, for stocks that can be owned only by domestic investors, PRC earnings have a higher relation with annual stock returns than IAS earnings. We argue that one explanation for the failure of IAS data to dominate PRC data is the absence of effective controls and infrastructure in China to monitor the additional reporting judgment available to managers under IAS.

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Eccher, Elizabeth Angela and Healy, Paul M., The Role of International Accounting Standards in Transitional Economies: A Study of the People's Republic of China (June 2000). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=233598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.233598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 224 Posted: 1993
Crossref
E T S Amir , E K Harris , Venuti
A Comparison of the Value-Relevance of U.S. Versus Non-U.S. GAAP Accounting Measures Using Form 20-F Reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
K Auer
Capital Market Reactions to Accounting Earnings AnnouncementsEmpirical Evidence on the Difference in the Information Content of IAS-Based Earnings and E C-Directives-Based Earnings
The European Accounting Review , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 587 - 623 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Ray Ball , S.P. Kothari , Ashok Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
University of Rochester Working Paper FR 99-12 Pages: 49 Posted: 15 Sep 1999
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
39 Citations
Orhan Akisik
Accounting Regulation, Financial Development, and Economic Growth
Emerging Markets Finance and Trade , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 33 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Pat Sucher , Katarzyna Kosmala , Svetlana Bychkova , Irene Jindrichovska
Introduction: Transitional economies and changing notions of accounting and accountability
European Accounting Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 571 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Chao Chen , Edward Lee , Gerald J. Lobo , Jessie Zhu
Who Benefits from IFRS Convergence in China?
Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2990919 · 44 Pages · Posted: 22 Jun 2017 · Downloads: 250
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Eda Köse , İsmail BEKCİ , Emin Hüseyin ÇETENAK
FİNANSAL RAPORLAMA STANDARTLARININ MUHASEBE KALİTESİNE ETKİSİ ÜZERİNE BİR ARAŞTIRMA
Muhasebe ve Vergi Uygulamaları Dergisi , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,610
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,582
RANK
4,832
39 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies