Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Without an International Financial Reporting Language (IFRL): Evidence of Information Asymmetry in the EU

21 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2013

Mark D. Crowley

Bridgewater State University

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2, 2013

Abstract

Since 2005, companies in the European Union (EU) are required by Regulation 1606/2002 to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS; however, these listed companies are not required to prepare financial statements and disclosures in an International Financial Reporting Language (IFRL) or lingua franca. We question whether firms that file IFRS financial statements only in the local language but not in English, the IFRL or lingua franca, limit the benefits of IFRS; whereas, companies that also file in English reduce information asymmetry and increase the effectiveness of IFRS as a global informational tool. This paper examines annual filings from 6,000 listed companies in the European Union (EU) for the years 2009 and 2012. We found that approximately 60 percent of companies from non-English speaking countries file in their local language and voluntary disclose in English; while 40 percent report only in their native languages, Our research suggests that until international companies adopt English as the International Financial Reporting Language (IFRL) the full benefit of complying with IFRS will not be recognized.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), information asymmetry, International Financial Reporting Language (IFRL), English as a lingua franca (ESL) , Regulation 1606/2002, European Union (EU)

Suggested Citation:

Crowley, Mark D., International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Without an International Financial Reporting Language (IFRL): Evidence of Information Asymmetry in the EU (October 2, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2335155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2335155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
G Andrássy
The right to use one's own language and the matter of simplicity
Europäisches Journal Für Minderheitenfragen , volume 4 , issue 1 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Aziz
Mainstreaming the duty of clarity and transparency as part of good administrative practice in the EU
European Law Journal , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 282 - 295 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Baechtiger , S Pedrini
Deliberative inclusion of minorities: Equality and reciprocity among linguistic groups in Switzerland
SSRN Working Paper Series Posted: 2010
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Financial reporting and supplemental voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 5 , p. 885 - 913 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
271,971
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies