Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Liquidity and the Pricing of Earnings: A Comparison of China's Floating and Non-Floating Shares

Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2013 Last revised: 14 Oct 2013

Fang Lou

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Economics

Jiwei Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Hongqi Yuan

Fudan University - School of Management

Date Written: October 2013

Abstract

The reform to convert non-floating shares to floating in China provides a setting in which shares are subject to different liquidity constraint. We show that the severity of this constraint is inversely related to the extent to which earnings information is reflected in the share prices. Specifically, before the reform, the transfer prices of non-floating shares reflect much less earnings information than the market prices of floating shares. After the reform, however, both types of transfer reflect more earnings information, although the weights are still less than that found in the market prices. Thus, China's unique setting shows that share liquidity affects the way earnings are priced in stock.

Keywords: Stock Liquidity, Pricing, Earnings, China

JEL Classification: G12, G15, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lou, Fang and Wang, Jiwei and Yuan, Hongqi, Stock Liquidity and the Pricing of Earnings: A Comparison of China's Floating and Non-Floating Shares (October 2013). Emerging Markets Finance and Trade, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2336002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986-12
Crossref
M E Barth , S Kallapur
The effects of cross-sectional scale difference on regression results in empirical accounting research
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 527 - 567 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Zhiwu Chen , Peng Xiong
Discounts on Illiquid Stocks: Evidence from China
Yale ICF Working Paper No. 00-56 Pages: 44 Posted: 14 Oct 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P M Dechow , A P Hutton , R G Sloan
An empirical assessment of the residual income valuation model
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1999-01
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,950
RANK
294,906
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Relationships between Real Estate Price and Expected Financial Asset Risk and Return: Theory and Empirical Evidence

By Gang-zhi Fan, Zsuzsa R. Huszar, ...

Housing Price and Entrepreneurship in China

By Lixing Li and Xiaoyu Wu

The Helping Hand of the State in Chinese Real Estate Firms: Anti-corruption and Liberalization

By Gang-zhi Fan, Zsuzsa R. Huszar, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies