Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Alignment and Conditional Conservatism: An Empirical Analysis of European Private Firms

Posted: 11 Oct 2013 Last revised: 2 Feb 2015

Jussi Karjalainen

University of Eastern Finland - Department of Business

Jyrki Niskanen

University of Eastern Finland

Mervi Niskanen

University of Eastern Finland

Date Written: February 2, 2015

Abstract

The aim of this study is to investigate whether reporting based on conditional conservatism differs in high versus low tax alignment countries in a sample of medium and large-sized private firms from 13 European countries. The results suggest that reporting conservatism is more likely to occur in high tax alignment countries and that this result only holds for firm-years with positive cash flow from operations. When it comes to negative cash flow from operations, we observe no differences in reporting conservatism of private firms between high and low tax alignment countries. Thus, the study provides a taxation-based explanation for conditional accounting conservatism in private firms.

Keywords: conditional conservatism; tax alignment; reporting incentives; private firms

JEL Classification: K22, K34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Karjalainen, Jussi and Niskanen, Jyrki and Niskanen, Mervi, Tax Alignment and Conditional Conservatism: An Empirical Analysis of European Private Firms (February 2, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2338428 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2338428
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies