Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Study About the Influence of Corporation Governance Structure on Internal Control Audit Report Lag - Based on Empirical Data of Listed Companies in Shenzhen Stock Exchange

Posted: 13 Oct 2013

Yuedong Li

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 12, 2013

Abstract

Corporation governance and internal control are generated because of Principal-agent problems, and corporation governance impacts on the internal control audit report lag. This paper examines whether internal audit report lags of Shenzhen Stock Exchange public listed companies is associated with corporation governance. The study is based on a sample of 1244 companies from Year 2008 to Year 2011. Regression analysis indicates that the firms, with less directors, more members in audit committees, more supervisors and more frequency of meeting of board of supervisors, are more likely to produce internal control audit report lag. This study also demonstrates independence of board of directors, meeting frequency of board of directors, duality of CEO, and independence of board of supervisors are not important in determining the internal control audit report lag. The contribution of this paper provides empirical data from timely disclosure of internal control information perspective to improve corporation governance.

Keywords: internal control audit report, audit lag, corporation governance

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yuedong, The Study About the Influence of Corporation Governance Structure on Internal Control Audit Report Lag - Based on Empirical Data of Listed Companies in Shenzhen Stock Exchange (October 12, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2339610
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,708
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies