Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Agency Costs of Socialistic Internal Capital Markets: Empirical Evidence from China

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2013

Jiwei Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Kangtao Ye

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This study provides empirical evidence of managerial agency costs in socialistic internal capital markets. Listed Chinese companies are required to disclose the amount of resources that are reallocated to other firms of the parent company, which provides us with a direct measure of the socialistic subsidization of weak member firms by strong member firms within a business group. We hypothesize that in strong member firms, managerial compensation is less sensitive to firm performance because cross-subsidization makes it difficult for group CEOs to hold the managers in strong firms accountable for their own firms’ performance, and also increases the noise in performance measures. We also hypothesize that socialistic cross-subsidization results in an increase in managerial agency costs of strong member firms due to the low pay-performance sensitivity and low incentive to work hard. We document empirical results that are consistent with these two predictions.

Keywords: Managerial agency costs, Managerial compensation, Conglomerate, Business group, Socialistic internal capital markets

JEL Classification: G15, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Jiwei and Ye, Kangtao, Managerial Agency Costs of Socialistic Internal Capital Markets: Empirical Evidence from China (2013). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2339849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: the impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunneling as an Incentive for Earnings Management during the IPO Process in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Alchian
Corporate Management and Property Rights
Economic Forces at Work , p. 227 - 257 Posted: 1969
H Almeida , D Wolfenzon
Should Business Groups be Dismantled? The Equilibrium Costs of Efficient Internal Capital Markets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , p. 99 - 144 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,962
RANK
502,214
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies