Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Real and Accrual-Based Earnings Management Activities

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy (JAPP), Volume 33, Issue 6, Nov.–Dec. 2014, pages 551–572

46 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2013 Last revised: 3 Dec 2014

Leonidas C. Doukakis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This study examines the effect of mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on both accrual-based and real earnings management. While prior literature has mainly examined the effects of IFRS adoption on accrual-based earnings management, no study to date has focused on the impact of IFRS adoption on real earnings management. Using a sample of 15,206 observations from 22 European countries between 2000 and 2010, this study employs a control sample of voluntary adopters and applies a differences-in-differences design to control for confounding concurrent events. The results suggest that mandatory IFRS adoption had no significant impact on either real or accrual-based earnings management practices. Additional analysis on a sub-sample of firms with relatively strong earnings management incentives supports a dominant role for firm-level reporting incentives over accounting standards in shaping financial reporting quality.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Accruals earnings management, Real earnings management, Differences-in-differences design, Firm-level incentives

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Doukakis, Leonidas C., The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Real and Accrual-Based Earnings Management Activities (2014). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy (JAPP), Volume 33, Issue 6, Nov.–Dec. 2014, pages 551–572, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2340951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence. Contemporary Accounting Research forthcoming Posted: 2013
V Athanasakou , N C Strong , M Walker
Earnings management or forecast guidance to meet analyst expectations?
Accounting and Business Research , volume 39 , p. 3 - 35 Posted: 2009
Wolfgang Aussenegg , Petra Inwinkl , Georg Thomas Schneider
Earnings Management and Local vs. International Accounting Standards of European Public Firms
Pages: 52 Posted: 3 Dec 2008 Last revised: 1 Jun 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
W Baber , P M Fairfield , J A Haggard
The effect of concern about reported income on discretionary spending decisions: The case of research and development
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 4 , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,481
RANK
43,493
14 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies