Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Impairment: A Comparative Country Analysis

Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, Forthcoming

Posted: 20 Oct 2013

Zane L. Swanson

University of Central Oklahoma

Robert Singer

Independent

Alexis Downs

Emporia State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

In response to de jure versus de facto issues about the convergence of accounting standards, we investigate whether non-U.S. firms (which list their shares on U.S. secondary markets and report under U.S. standards) are more likely to interpret and apply the accounting rules in a different manner than their U.S. counterparts. Specifically, this study evaluates a mediation effect: i.e., that non-U.S. firms will take greater goodwill impairment charges under SFAS 142 (ASC 350) than U.S. firms. The findings indicate that firm-level and country-level characteristics including legal, accounting, and cultural values affect the goodwill impairment decision and impact the comparability of accounting information.

Keywords: Goodwill, Impairment, International Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Swanson, Zane L. and Singer, Robert and Downs, Alexis, Goodwill Impairment: A Comparative Country Analysis (2013). Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2342333
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,516
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies