Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Six Large Banks Reacted to a Basel III Proposal to Include Credit Derivatives in the Leverage Ratio

33 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2013 Last revised: 29 May 2015

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: May 27, 2015

Abstract

In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, bank regulators are paying more attention to derivatives. In a move that can be seen as a step away from fair-value accounting, bank regulators (Basel III) have proposed to calculate bank leverage ratios using notional values, rather than fair values, of written credit derivatives. In addition to changing the calculation of regulatory ratios, the proposed changes will also improve bank disclosure of exposure to credit derivatives. This study investigates the effect of the proposed changes on the leverage ratios of the six largest U.S. banks, five of which currently disclose information to calculate the proposed leverage ratios. Wells Fargo and JPMorgan are least affected by the proposed changes. Goldman Sachs and Bank of America suffer a 1 to 1.4 percentage point decline in leverage ratio, while Morgan Stanley suffers a 2.4 percentage-point decline to below the critical 5% threshold. Citigroup does not currently provide the necessary disclosures. We also examine the reaction of the six banks, in the form of comment letters, to the proposed changes. While the letters were apparently coordinated, the Wells Fargo and JP Morgan letters carry the most positive (or least negative) tone, consistent with our expectations.

Keywords: Leverage Ratio, Supplemental Leverage Ratio, Credit Derivatives, Basel III, Notional Value, London Whale, Systemically Important Financial Institutions (SIFI)

JEL Classification: G01, G18, G21, G28, M41, M48, Z18

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Dov, How Six Large Banks Reacted to a Basel III Proposal to Include Credit Derivatives in the Leverage Ratio (May 27, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2356718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2356718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
A Admati , M Hellwig
The bankers' new clothes: What's wrong with banking and what to do about it Posted: 2012
Consultative Document: Revised Basel III leverage ratio framework and disclosure requirements. Basel: Bank for International Settlements
Basel Committee on Bank Supervision Posted: 2013-06
Comment Letters on Consultative Document: Revised Basel III leverage ratio framework and disclosure requirements. Basel: Bank for International Settlements Posted: 2013-10
D Beim , C Mccurdy
Report on Systemic Risk and Bank Supervision. Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,523
RANK
166,710
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Resolution of Banking Crises: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly

By Luc Laeven and Fabián Valencia

Capital Flows, Cross-Border Banking and Global Liquidity

By Valentina Bruno and Hyun Song Shin

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies