Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Cross-Country Study on the Relationship between Financial Development and Earnings Management

Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting 29 (2):166‒194, 2018

41 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2013 Last revised: 7 Jun 2018

Masahiro Enomoto

Kobe University - Research Institute for Economics & Business Administration

Fumihiko Kimura

Tohoku University - Economics & Management

Tomoyasu Yamaguchi

Chuo University - Faculty of Commerce

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates whether a country’s level of financial development is associated with earnings management in an international setting. Financial development is likely to heighten the monitoring and scrutiny of accounting numbers because of strengthened investor protection laws and regulations as well as sophisticated market participants. Therefore, we first hypothesize that both accrual-based and real earnings management decrease with greater financial development. However, research shows that managers tend to apply real earnings management, instead of accrual-based earnings management, under strict accounting standards, regulations, and close auditor scrutiny. Thus, we explore the alternative hypothesis that accrual-based earnings management decreases but real earnings management increases along with higher financial development. We examine the relationship between financial development and both types of earnings management using 56,830 observations in 37 countries covering the period 2009 to 2012. The results indicate that both types of earnings management are more restrained under higher levels of financial development.

Keywords: Financial Development, Accounting Institution, Accrual-Based Earnings Management, Real Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Enomoto, Masahiro and Kimura, Fumihiko and Yamaguchi, Tomoyasu, A Cross-Country Study on the Relationship between Financial Development and Earnings Management (October 1, 2017). Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting 29 (2):166‒194, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2357275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2357275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Abad , M F Cutillas-Gomariz , J P Sánchez-Ballesta , J Yagüe
Real earnings management and information asymmetry in the equity market
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming Posted: 2016
Crossref
A K Achleitner , N Fichtl , C Kaserer , G Siciliano
Real earnings management and accrualbased earnings management in family firms
European Accounting Review , volume 23 , p. 431 - 461 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Barton , P J Simko
The balance sheet as an earnings management constraint
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E Bartov , D A Cohen
The "numbers game" in the pre-and post-Sarbanes-Oxley eras
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 24 , p. 505 - 534 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,378
RANK
192,204
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies