Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Connections and Earnings Quality: Evidence from India

IIM Bangalore Research Paper No. 433

21 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2013

R. Narayanaswamy

Indian Institute of Management (IIMB), Bangalore

Date Written: November 25, 2013

Abstract

This paper investigates the association between political connections and earnings quality in Indian companies. Recent corporate scandals (e.g., 2G mobile phone licences, coal block allocations, iron ore and granite mining licences) have underlined the political connectedness of Indian business entities. The increasing role of the private corporate sector in the economy in the wake of the economic liberalization has strengthened the traditional links between business organizations and the political system. The involvement of politicians in business and of business organizations in politics, the participation of senior civil servants in political and business-related activities and the dependence of political parties on donations from business organizations for funding elections have contributed to the importance of political connections in business. We find that connected firms have lower earnings quality than non-connected firms and are more likely to engage Big Four auditors.

Keywords: political connections, earnings management, India

Suggested Citation:

Narayanaswamy, Ramaswami, Political Connections and Earnings Quality: Evidence from India (November 25, 2013). IIM Bangalore Research Paper No. 433, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2359322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2359322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Association for Democratic Reforms/National Election Watch Posted: 2004
P K Chaney , M Faccio , D Parsley
The quality of accounting information in politically connected firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 51 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 58 - 76 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K Datta
Business in India is still a political game Posted: 2009
P M Dechow , R Sloan , A Sweeney
Detecting earnings management
The Accounting Review , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 225 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
611
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,297
RANK
101,035
1 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indian Institute of Management Bangalore Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Politically Connected Firms

By Mara Faccio

Cronyism and Capital Controls: Evidence from Malaysia

By Simon Johnson and Todd Mitton

Cronyism and Capital Controls: Evidence from Malaysia

By Simon Johnson and Todd Mitton

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies