Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
El Intercambio De Información Sobre Las Rentas Del Ahorro Desde Una Perspectiva Global Y Su Adaptación Al Convenio Para Evitar La Doble Imposición Entre Los Estados Unidos Y España (The New Double Tax Convention Signed between Spain and the US and the Interchange of Information (FATCA))

Revista Impuestos, Ed. Wolters Kluwer, Número 11, Noviembre 2013

26 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2013

Patricia Lampreave

Instituto de Estudios Bursatiles (Universidad Complutense de Madrid), Law School

Date Written: November 26, 2013

Abstract

El capital es, probablemente, el factor económico con mayor movilidad, por su facilidad de desplazamiento hacia territorios que ofrezca una fiscalidad más atractiva. La opacidad y falta de intercambio de información han imposibilitado durante años el control y en su caso, la sujeción impositiva por parte de la Administración tributaria correspondiente. En una primera parte se analizan las estrategias de la OCDE y de la UE en la lucha contra la evasión fiscal de este tipo de rentas, pivotando el éxito de éstas en la cooperación entre los Estados para la obtención de información tributaria . Posteriormente se analiza, en el marco concreto de las relaciones hispano-norteamericanas, la evolución de los acuerdos de intercambio de información a través del Convenio y su compatibilidad con los recientes acuerdos FATCA.

The saving income is probably the economic factor with greater mobility between States. The opacity and lack of exchange of information across years has prevented any control and the appropriate taxation by the relevant tax authorities. Therefore, in this article we review the strategies of the OECD and the EU for tackling tax evasion on such income, focusing their success on the cooperation between States in obtaining tax information and by finishing with the bank secrecy as a limitation on the interchange of information. The article analyzes, in the specific context of the Spanish-US´ relation, the evolution on the exchange of information clauses through the double tax treaty and its compatibility with the recent FATCA agreements.

Note: Downloadable document is in Spanish.

Keywords: Intercambio de información, secreto bancario, rentas del ahorro, cooperación internacional, convenio hispano-estadounidense, elusión fiscal, FATCA, Interchange of information bank secrecy, saving income, international cooperation, double tax convention between Spain-US

Suggested Citation:

Lampreave, Patricia, El Intercambio De Información Sobre Las Rentas Del Ahorro Desde Una Perspectiva Global Y Su Adaptación Al Convenio Para Evitar La Doble Imposición Entre Los Estados Unidos Y España (The New Double Tax Convention Signed between Spain and the US and the Interchange of Information (FATCA)) (November 26, 2013). Revista Impuestos, Ed. Wolters Kluwer, Número 11, Noviembre 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2359989 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2359989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,592
RANK
580,215
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

U.S. Treaty Anti-Avoidance Rules: An Overview and Assessment

By Reuven S. Avi-yonah and Oz Halabi

An Assessment of Anti-Tax Avoidance Doctrines in the United States and the European Union

By Patricia Lampreave

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies