Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Quality: Cross-National Comparison of Regulatory Regimes

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Nov 2013

Gary Kleinman

Montclair State University

Beixin Lin

Montclair State University

Dan Palmon

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: November 25, 2013

Abstract

The importance of fostering more accurate audits has been heightened by a series of high-profile accounting scandals at the beginning of the millennium. These scandals prompted more stringent regulations over corporate governance and financial reporting and the creation of audit oversight bodies as the Public Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) in the U.S. and the Public Oversight Board (POB) in the UK. In parallel, the growing globalization of business has brought forth calls for adherence to a common set of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Even if a common standard is promulgated, it will not lead to similar results if implementation differs across countries. Therefore, it is important to investigate the auditing regulatory regimes in different nations and the status of cross-border audit inspections. Accordingly, we begin by describing the cross-national institutions (e.g., the International Federation of Accountants [IFAC]) that impact national regulatory choices. Then we survey the audit regulatory practices of public company auditors of a select group of major economic powers and based on this analysis, we discuss the challenges and obstacles to engaging in intra-national audit, cross-national audit/inspections and the challenges posed by differences in auditing standards used in various linked (e.g., by joint ventures, etc.) nations. We include in this discussion the effects of national culture, investor legal protection, economic development and differing financial standard sources.

Suggested Citation:

Kleinman, Gary and Lin, Beixin and Palmon, Dan, Audit Quality: Cross-National Comparison of Regulatory Regimes (November 25, 2013). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2359747
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,594
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies