Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Location of Decision-Rights within Multinational Firms

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 51, No. 5, 2013

Posted: 28 Nov 2013

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Phillip C. Stocken

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 26, 2013

Abstract

Using U.S.-based multinational firm data gathered over more than two decades, we examine factors associated with the location of decision-rights within these firms, whether the inappropriate assignment of decision-rights is associated with poor firm performance, and whether these firms relocate decision-rights in response to their evolving environments. We find that a mismatch between the location of decision-rights and a firm’s environment is associated with weak firm performance. We also show that the likelihood a parent company will alter the assignment of decision-rights to a subsidiary is increasing in the extent of a mismatch although this likelihood is decreasing in the strength of the subsidiary’s performance.

Keywords: organizational structure, multinational, delegation, decentralization, decision-rights

Suggested Citation:

Robinson, Leslie and Stocken, Phillip C., Location of Decision-Rights within Multinational Firms (November 26, 2013). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 51, No. 5, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2360164
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,679
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies