Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Characteristics and the Extent of Voluntary Disclosure: The Case of Egypt

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 4, No. 17, 2013

11 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2013

Mohammed Soliman

Arab Academy for Science, Technology & Maritime Transport

Date Written: December 1, 2013

Abstract

In a society depending on real time information, corporate disclosure is crucial for the capital market efficiency. The more disclosures a company makes, the more transparent becomes the information to investors, the lower becomes the information asymmetry and more credible the firms will be for the market. The purpose of this study is to investigate the association between the voluntary disclosure level in annual reports and firm characteristics of more active 50 Egyptian companies listed on the Egyptian Stock Exchange of the non-financial sector during the period 2007-2010. The firm characteristics used in the study are: firm size, auditor size, profitability, and firm’s age. A disclosure checklist consisting of 60 voluntary items of information is developed and statistical analysis is performed using multiple regression analysis. The results of univariate and multivariate analyses indicated that firm size and profitability have significant positive association with voluntary disclosure level in annual reports. On the other hand, auditor size and firm’s age do not have any significant association with voluntary disclosure level. However, this paper has contributed to the academic literature that firms in the Middle East provide voluntary corporate information which builds a confidence to the investors in general.

Keywords: Firm Characteristics; Annual reports; Voluntary Disclosure; Egypt

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Soliman, Mohammed Moustafa, Firm Characteristics and the Extent of Voluntary Disclosure: The Case of Egypt (December 1, 2013). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 4, No. 17, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2361905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
M Hossain , M Reaz
Determinants and characteristics of voluntary disclosure by Indian banking companies
Environment Management , volume 14 , issue 5 , p. 274 - 288 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Hossain , M Perrera , A Rahman
Voluntary disclosure in the annual reports of New Zealand Companies
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 6 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 1995
Crossref
M Jensen , W Meckling
Theory of the firm: managerial behavior, agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 3 , p. 305 - 360 Posted: 1976
Crossref
N Kohl , W Schaefers
Corporate governance and market valuation of publicly traded real estate companies: evidence from Europe
Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 362 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
792
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,727
RANK
72,280
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of Corporate Governance on Investment: Evidence from Real Estate Investment Trusts (Reits)

By Jay C. Hartzell, Libo Sun, ...

The Role of Corporate Governance in Initial Public Offerings: Evidence from Real Estate Investment Trusts

By Jay C. Hartzell, Crocker H. Liu, ...

Insider Ownership and Firm Value: Evidences from Real Estate Investment Trusts

By Bing Han

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies