Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and the Cost of Debt in Italy and UK

Accounting and Business Research, 2014, Forthcoming

Posted: 4 Dec 2013

Nicola Moscariello

University of Naples II - Dept. of Economics

Len Skerratt

Brunel University London - Economics and Finance; Philips College; Kingston University - Business School

Michele Pizzo

University of Naples II - Department of Economics

Date Written: December 3, 2013

Abstract

This paper analyses the effect of the mandatory adoption of IFRS within the EU on the cost of corporate debt. In order to avoid the imprecision involved in a large scale cross country study, we examine the impact of IFRS in two very clearly different institutional settings, the UK and Italy. The UK is a common-law country characterised by strong enforcement and national GAAP which are equivalent to IFRS. Italy is a typical European code-law country, characterised by a weak outside investor protection system, and national GAAP significantly different from the IFRS model.

No IFRS effect is observed in the UK, consistent with it having standards which are close to IFRS. During the post IFRS period, in Italy more weight is placed on the accounting numbers to assess the cost of debt. We also find that accruals quality improves in Italy, thus suggesting that public financial reporting data is enhanced relative to privately held information about borrowers’ credit ratings.

Keywords: cost of debt; IAS/IFRS; mandatory adoption; standard setting

Suggested Citation:

Moscariello, Nicola and Skerratt, Len and Pizzo, Michele, Mandatory IFRS Adoption and the Cost of Debt in Italy and UK (December 3, 2013). Accounting and Business Research, 2014, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2362816
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,459
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies