Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recognition versus Disclosure of Fair Values

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Boston U. School of Management Research Paper No. 2013-13

55 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2013 Last revised: 17 Jan 2015

Maximilian A. Müller

University of Cologne

Eddie Riedl

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: January 15, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines pricing differences across recognized and disclosed fair values. We build on prior literature by examining two theoretical causes of such differences: lower reliability of the disclosed information, and/or investors’ higher related information processing costs. We examine European real estate firms reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which require that fair values for investment properties, our sample firms’ key operating asset, either be recognized on the balance sheet or disclosed in the footnotes. Consistent with prior research, we predict and find a lower association between equity prices and disclosed relative to recognized investment property fair values, reflecting a discount assigned to disclosed fair values. We then predict and find that this discount is mitigated by lower information processing costs (proxied via high analyst following), and some support that it is also mitigated by higher reliability (proxied via use of external appraisals). These latter results are documented using subsample analyses to test one attribute (either information processing costs or reliability) while holding the other constant. Overall, these findings are consistent with fair value reliability and information processing costs providing complementary explanations for observed pricing discounts assessed on disclosed accounting amounts.

Keywords: fair value, recognition, disclosure, IFRS, investment property

JEL Classification: L85, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Müller, Maximilian A. and Riedl, Edward J. and Sellhorn, Thorsten, Recognition versus Disclosure of Fair Values (January 15, 2015). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Boston U. School of Management Research Paper No. 2013-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2362362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2362362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
D Aboody
Recognition versus Disclosure in the Oil and Gas Industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 21 - 32 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does Recognition versus Disclosure Matter? Evidence from Value-Relevance of Banks' Recognized and Disclosed Derivative Financial Instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M E Barth
Relative Measurement Errors among Alternative Pension Asset and Liability Measures
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 433 - 463 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
968
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,643
RANK
54,763
11 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies