Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Legal Protections and Control-Ownership Divergences on Investor Perceptions of Foreign Earnings

Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, Vol. 21, Iss: 2, pp.164-187

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2013/07

Posted: 13 Dec 2013

Chen-lung Chin

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Yu-Ju Chen

Asia University

Gary Kleinman

Montclair State University

Picheng Lee

Pace University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 12, 2013

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of corporate internationalization, governance structures, and legal protections on the foreign earnings response coefficient (FERC). The FERC is a measure of the value-relevance of foreign earnings. We collected data on 3653 Taiwanese firms that had overseas investments. We examined the impact of the site of their overseas investments and the nature of the legal code of the investee country on the investor perceptions of firms’ reported foreign and domestically-generated earnings. We also examined the impact of corporate governance arrangements (e.g., the difference between the owners’ cash flow and voting rights on the same components of the firms’ earnings.

Our empirical findings suggest that an aggressive internationalization strategy (foreign direct investment) has positive effects on the value relevance of foreign earnings, but that this strategy is impacted by the firm’s own corporate governance arrangements and the target of its overseas investment efforts. While foreign investments bring about growth and profits it exposes the investors to the risk of expropriation by investee countries and corporate insiders.

Keywords: internationalization, corporate governance, investor legal protection, value relevance of foreign earnings

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chin, Chen-lung and Chen, Yu-Ju and Kleinman, Gary and Lee, Picheng, The Effects of Legal Protections and Control-Ownership Divergences on Investor Perceptions of Foreign Earnings (May 12, 2013). Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, Vol. 21, Iss: 2, pp.164-187, Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2013/07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2366971
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,451
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies