Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship of Development Status of Investee Countries and Investor Perceptions of Foreign Earnings

International Business & Economics Research Journal, July 2012, Vol. 11, Issue 7, p. 785

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2013/08

Posted: 13 Dec 2013

Chen-lung Chin

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Yu-Ju Chen

Asia University

Gary Kleinman

Montclair State University

Picheng Lee

Pace University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of corporate internationalization and the development status of investee countries on the foreign earnings response coefficient (FERC), which is a measure of the value-relevance of foreign earnings. To improve competitiveness, firms worldwide have expanded aggressively into foreign markets, thereby increasing their exposure to external risks and uncertainties on the one hand, and sources of growth and reward on the other. Using a Taiwanese sample, we found that greater corporate internationalization via investments in developed countries was positively related to the foreign ERC. We expected, and found, that companies can enhance the positive effects of internationalization by investing in countries that are relatively better developed than in countries that are less well developed. The public policy implications of these findings are discussed.

Keywords: internationalization, economic development, value relevance of foreign earnings

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chin, Chen-lung and Chen, Yu-Ju and Kleinman, Gary and Lee, Picheng, The Relationship of Development Status of Investee Countries and Investor Perceptions of Foreign Earnings (2012). International Business & Economics Research Journal, July 2012, Vol. 11, Issue 7, p. 785, Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2013/08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2366973
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,085
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies