Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Earnings Management: Evidence from Around the World

56 Pages Posted: 24 Dec 2013

Tesfaye Taddese Lemma

Towson University

Minga Negash

Metropolitan State University of Denver; University of the Witwatersrand

Mthokozisi Mlilo

University of the Witwatersrand - Faculty of Commerce, Law & Management

Date Written: December 21, 2013

Abstract

The study seeks to investigate the determinants of firm level earnings management (EM) within the context of 44 countries around the world. A sample of 29 430 non-financial companies over the period 1996-2012 were analysed using a series of models that link firm-, industry-, and country-specific characteristics, on the one hand, and EM, on the other. We develop composite measures of accrual (A_EM) and real earnings management (R_EM) using principal component analysis (PCA). To estimate the model parameters we utilise three-stage least square (3SLS) procedures with seemingly unrelated regression (SUR). The study triangulates multiple theories to gain a deeper understanding of firm level EM behaviour and draw policy implications. We find that the nature of the nexus between firm-, industry-, and country-characteristics, on the one hand, EM activity, on the other, is a function of the measure of the EM construct and the reporting environment considered in the analysis. The findings signify that monitoring and reputational concerns, regulatory and market pressures, and information asymmetry issues are drivers behind firm level EM activity around the world.

Keywords: earnings management, determinants, international evidence

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Lemma, Tesfaye Taddese and Negash, Minga and Mlilo, Mthokozisi, Determinants of Earnings Management: Evidence from Around the World (December 21, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2370926 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2370926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,700
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,943
RANK
23,980
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies