Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms’ Disclosure Compliance with IASB's Management Commentary Framework: An Empirical Investigation

Rivista Italiana di Ragioneria ed Economia Aziendale (RIREA), Vol. July-August- September 2013

23 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2013 Last revised: 27 Sep 2014

Gianluca Ginesti

Department of Economics, Management, Institutions - University of Naples

Riccardo Macchioni

Second University of Naples - Department of Strategy and Quantitative Methods

Giuseppe Sannino

Second University of Naples - Department of Economics

Carlo Drago

Università degli Studi "Niccolò Cusano"

Date Written: October 1, 2013

Abstract

This study analyzes the information conveyed by the management report for a sample of firms listed on the Italian Stock Exchange at the end of 2010. Using a self-constructed checklist, we examined the determinants affecting the extent of disclosure compliance with IASB's Management Commentary (MC) voluntary guidance, soon after its implementation. Consistent with previous accounting studies, our results indicate that firm size and ownership diffusion are positively related to the extent of disclosure compliance with IASB’s MC guidance. The results also show that the level of disclosure compliance to the IASB’s MC guidance is low, ranging from 10% to 76%, averaging 39%. This means that despite the continued demand for better comparability in financial reporting practices, in Italy a large number of firms do not seem to converge towards a single set of standards for both the narrative and numerical-financial disclosure.

Keywords: management commentary, Narrative Disclosure, IAS/IFRS, financial reporting

Suggested Citation:

Ginesti, Gianluca and Macchioni, Riccardo and Sannino, Giuseppe and Drago, Carlo, Firms’ Disclosure Compliance with IASB's Management Commentary Framework: An Empirical Investigation (October 1, 2013). Rivista Italiana di Ragioneria ed Economia Aziendale (RIREA), Vol. July-August- September 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2371859
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Accounting Standards Board
Rising to the challenge, A review of narrative reporting by UK listed companies Posted: 2009
Ahmed K Courtis , J K
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: a meta-analysis
British Accounting Review , volume 31 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Ajinkya B , S Bhojraj , Sengupta P
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of accounting research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Aljifri K
Annual report disclosure in a developing country: The case of the UAE
Advances in Accounting, incorporating Advances in International Accounting , volume 24 , p. 93 - 100 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,312
RANK
531,414
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies