Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Covenants and Related Contracting Processes in the Australian Private Debt Market: An Experimental Study

Posted: 6 Sep 2000

Paul R. Mather

La Trobe University

Abstract

Private debt markets are characterised by covenant restrictive but renegotiation-flexible debt contracts as financial intermediaries lending in private debt markets have a comparative advantage over investors in public debt markets in offering such contracts. The two research questions investigated in this paper are "Whether several borrower-and contract-specific variables determine the restrictiveness of financial covenants in private debt contracts?" and "Whether several borrower-and contract-specific variables are associated with loan officers decisions to waive technical default on financial covenants?" Two behavioural experiments involving loan officers examined these contracting processes in the Australian private debt market. The first experiment examined whether certain variables determine the restrictiveness of financial covenants in private debt contracts. Management reputation and security were found to be associated with the number and tightness of financial covenants, whilst high financial risk was associated with increased tightness, but not the number, of such covenants. The effect of the interaction, management reputation x security, was also significant. The second experiment examined the association between certain variables and the likelihood of loan officers waiving technical default on financial covenants. Low financial risk, security and defaults caused solely by a change in accounting standards were found to be associated with the likelihood of the default being waived.

These are the first behavioural experiments examining these debt contracting processes reported in the literature and the paper contributes in several ways. First, the methodology allows comparisons with findings of prior research from a new perspective. Second, the methodology enabled the investigation of the effect of management reputation on the restrictiveness of covenants: an important addition to the literature given its prominence in professional banking writings. Third, the experimental setting facilitated controlling the investment opportunity set when studying the responses to technical default thereby overcoming a limitation of the main prior study in this area (Chen and Wei, 1993).

Keywords: Debt Covenants, Private Debt Markets, Debt Contracting

JEL Classification: M41, G32, C91

Suggested Citation:

Mather, Paul R., Financial Covenants and Related Contracting Processes in the Australian Private Debt Market: An Experimental Study. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=237349
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,073
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies