Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accruals, Conservatism and Value Relevance in a Transition Economy

17 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2013

Karol Marek Klimczak

Lodz University of Technology

Jan Michalak

University of Lodz

Date Written: December 1, 2013

Abstract

The goal of this paper is to identify firm-level factors that affect the valuation of companies in a transitional economy of Poland in comparison to companies from developed continental markets of Germany and France. The novelty of our approach rests in a careful construction of the comparable sample, which is a challenge given that Polish companies are relatively small in terms of market capitalization. Therefore we limit our sample to companies for which we can find comparable companies in the other two markets and then use sample matching techniques to identify the comparables. We increase comparability by limiting the sample to IFRS reporting companies and studying only the period after the mandatory adoption of IFRS in the European Union. Then, we measure accruals intensity, conditional conservatism, intangibles intensity and control for negative earnings. Results of valuation model estimations show that cross-country differences in valuation can be explained by the level of accruals intensity and conservatism, the interaction between the two variables, and the interaction between conservatism and intensity of intangible assets. The results imply that it is firm-specific choices in accounting practice that affect the value relevance of earnings rather than the broad factors which characterize each country.

Keywords: valuation, IFRS, conservatism

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Klimczak, Karol Marek and Michalak, Jan, Accruals, Conservatism and Value Relevance in a Transition Economy (December 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2373081 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2373081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D Aboody , B &amp;lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research Supplement , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Equity Valuation of Accounting Numbers for Security Investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe (SSRN Scholarly Paper No. ID 2333532) Posted: 2013
R Ball
Imitational financial reporting standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,959
RANK
276,301
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies