Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosures and Impacts of Impairment of Non-Current Assets in the Financial Statements: A Study on Listed Manufacturing Companies in Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) in Sri Lanka

Merit Research Journal of Accounting, Auditing, Economics and Finance Vol. 1(6) pp. 122-133, December 2013

12 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2014

Dr. Logeswary Sooriyakumaran

Advanced Technological Institute, Jaffna

Velnampy Thirunavukkarasu

University of Jaffna

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Nowadays many accounting standard setters want to move towards the relevance of fair value than reliability of historical value even accounting information has to maintain them in balance. The most percentage of value in financial statements is represented by non-current assets. And also the company act has insisted the implementing impairment test in the companies. Hence importance of impairment of assets has grown. The purpose of this study is to analyze the disclosures of impairment of non-current assets in applying LKAS 36 and their impact by inspecting the 5 years financial reports surveyed during the period from 2008-2012 of listed manufacturing companies in CSE. The disclosure of impairment was analyzed by using descriptive statistics and the impacts were evaluated by inferential statistics of regression and analyzed the relationship by correlation and coefficient between Impairment loss and selected accounting information of Return On Assets (ROA), Return On Capital Employed (ROCE), Net Profit Margin (NPM), Operating Profit Ratio (OPR) , and Earning Per Share( EPS). According to the findings 6% of reports disclosed very detailed information about the impairment. Nearly 90%of companies fail to give any reason to the impairment loss, even though they met the significant amount loss. All the companies have disclosed the accounting policies of impairment of assets. The results of analyzing impact of impairment show that, reported impairment losses had a significant impact upon reported profits. Loss making companies were more adversely affected by impairment losses than profitable companies. The sample company’s EPS dropped from 0.21 to -1.89 by recording Impairment loss. Hence the impairment loss was often a significant component of the reported overall loss. Future company financial reports on impairment could improve the disclosure to include a clear cause of impairment stated unambiguously in the annual reports with supporting value.

Keywords: Impairment of non-current assets, disclosure, impact

Suggested Citation:

Sooriyakumaran, Dr. Logeswary and Thirunavukkarasu, Velnampy, Disclosures and Impacts of Impairment of Non-Current Assets in the Financial Statements: A Study on Listed Manufacturing Companies in Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) in Sri Lanka (2013). Merit Research Journal of Accounting, Auditing, Economics and Finance Vol. 1(6) pp. 122-133, December 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2374417
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Alessandro C Elena , M Patrizia , T
Ias/Ifrs adoption by Italian listed companies: first empirical evidences
International Review of Business Research Papers , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 100 - 110 Posted: 2009-04
W Alshabani , Mohammad
An investigation of the effects of SFAS No.121 on asset impairment reporting and stock returns Posted: 2001
Z Changlin , H Stephen , Elaine E
The global financial crisis and fair value accounting: How US non-financial companies played the measurement game Posted: 2012
Christian Laux , Christian Leuz
Did Fair-Value Accounting Contribute to the Financial Crisis? Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Dr. Logeswary Sooriyakumaran
Analysis of Impairment of Assets and its Impact on Capital Structure of the Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka
10 Pages · Posted: 6 Mar 2014 · Downloads: 270
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dr. Logeswary Sooriyakumaran , Velnampy Thirunavukkarasu
Impact of Impairment Loss on Profitability and Capital Structure of Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka
Faculty of Management Studies and Commerce, University of Jaffna, Sri Lanka, Forthcoming · 9 Pages · Posted: 20 Mar 2014 · Downloads: 446
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dr. Logeswary Sooriyakumaran , Elankumaran Periyathamby
The Impact of Assets Impairment on Earnings: A Special Reference to Listed Manufacturing Companies of Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) in Sri Lanka
8 Pages · Posted: 11 Apr 2016 · Downloads: 176
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dr. Logeswary Sooriyakumaran
Identify the Market Efficiency of Assets Write Down Announcement - A Study on Loss Earned Listed Manufacturing Companies in CSE
20 Pages · Posted: 24 Jan 2017 · Downloads: 91
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
668
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,443
RANK
90,251
5 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies