Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opinion Analytics of IFRS Financial Reporting and Financial News - Evidence from Taiwan

Posted: 7 Jan 2014

Dr. Jia-Lang Seng

National Chengchi University - Department of Accounting - College of Commerce

Date Written: January 4, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of the quality of disclosures of financial reports of the listed companies in Taiwan under her first full adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in 2013. We select the semi-annual reports of companies in the three main industry sectors of high technology, financial service, and biotechnology representing 80% of the capital market in the first year of mandatory adoption. The dictionary of financial reporting is developed according to opinion mining and sentiment analysis studies. In contrast to prior studies, we explore the gap analytics between financial reporting and financial news to explore whether the disclosure quality is related with the adoption of IFRS. Results are promising and show that the disclosures have relationship with the IFRS first adoption.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Opinion Analytics and Sentiment Analysis, Disclosure Quality, High-tech Industry, Bio-tech Industry, Financial Service Industry

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Seng, Dr. Jia-Lang, Opinion Analytics of IFRS Financial Reporting and Financial News - Evidence from Taiwan (January 4, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2375147
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies