Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the IFRS on Intercompany Transactions. The Case of the Greek Food-Beverage Sector

Procedia Technology /Elsevier (2013)

10 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2014

Athanasios Vazakidis

University of Macedonia

Stavropoulos Antonios

University of Macedonia

Ioannis Samaras

University of Macedonia

Stergios Athianos

International Hellenic University

Date Written: December 1, 2013

Abstract

The present study examines the value relevance of disclosed related party transactions (RPTs) in group of companies at the Greek food-beverage sector. We are based on two types of transactions, exchange of goods-products and exchange of assets, using a value relevance approach. We apply the model of Ohlson(1995) for the period 2003-2012 and we observe that the reported earnings of firms selling goods or assets to related parties exhibit a lower valuation coefficient than those of firms in Greece without such transactions. This result is not observed after 2005, when a new fair value measurement rule for related party transactions came into effect. Our evidence suggests that the new RPT regulation in Greece is perceived to be effective at reducing the potential misuse of RPTs for earnings management purposes. Since RPTs have been the subject of numerous scandals, our evidence from the Greek stock markets suggests that new RPT accounting standards could prove an effective solution to this issue.

Keywords: IFRS, related party transactions, food-beverage sector, Athens Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Vazakidis, Athanasios and Antonios, Stavropoulos and Samaras, Ioannis and Athianos, Stergios, The Effect of the IFRS on Intercompany Transactions. The Case of the Greek Food-Beverage Sector (December 1, 2013). Procedia Technology /Elsevier (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2376121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of accounting research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2000
Crossref
E Amir , T Harris , E Venuti
A comparison of the value relevance of US versus Non-US GAAP accounting measures using Form 20-F Reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Athianos , A Vazakides , P Arsenos
The Accounting Harmonization After the Adoption of IAS's / IFRS's: The case of Greek Listed Companies
International Review of Applied Economics , volume 2 , p. 31 - 67 Posted: 2007
R Ball
The effect of international factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,915
RANK
325,828
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies