Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Thin Capitalization Rules and Multinational Firm Capital Structure

CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2014-007

48 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2014

Jennifer Blouin

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Harry Huizinga

Tilburg University - Center for Economic Research (CentER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Luc Laeven

European Central Bank (ECB); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Gaëtan Nicodème

Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB) - Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management; CEPR and CESifo The views expressed in the article are those of the author and should not be attributed to the European Commission.

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 15, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of thin capitalization rules that limit the tax deductibility of interest on the capital structure of the foreign affiliates of US multinationals. We construct a new data set on thin capitalization rules in 54 countries for the period 1982-2004. Using confidential data on the internal and total leverage of foreign affiliates of US multinationals, we find that thin capitalization rules affect multinational firm capital structure in a significant way. Specifically, restrictions on an affiliate’s debt-to-assets ratio reduce this ratio on average by 1.9%, while restrictions on an affiliate’s borrowing from the parent-to-equity ratio reduce this ratio by 6.3%. Also, restrictions on borrowing from the parent reduce the affiliate’s debt to assets ratio by 0.8%, which shows that rules targeting internal leverage have an indirect effect on the overall indebtedness of affiliate firms. The impact of capitalization rules on affiliate leverage is higher if their application is automatic rather than discretionary. Furthermore, we show that thin capitalization regimes have aggregate firm effects: they reduce the firm’s aggregate interest expense bill but lower firm valuation. Overall, our results show than thin capitalization rules, which thus far have been understudied, have a substantial effect on the capital structure within multinational firms, with implications for the firm’s market valuation.

Keywords: Thin capitalization rule; Multinational firm; Capital structure; Taxation

JEL Classification: G32, H25

Suggested Citation:

Blouin, Jennifer and Huizinga, Harry and Laeven, Luc A. and Nicodeme, Gaetan, Thin Capitalization Rules and Multinational Firm Capital Structure (January 15, 2014). CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2014-007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational financial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A J Auerbach
Taxation and corporate financial policy , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 2002
Crossref
L Brosens
Thin capitalization rules and EU law
EC Tax Review , volume 4 , p. 188 - 213 Posted: 2004
T Buettner , M Overesch , U Schreiber , G Wamser
The impact of thincapitalization rules on the capital structure of multinational firms
Journal of Public Economics , volume 96 , p. 930 - 938 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,826
RANK
60,937
25 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies