Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do IFRS Based Earnings Announcements Have More Information Content than Canadian GAAP Based Earnings Announcements?

2014 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

33 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2014

Shahid Khan

Pennsylvania State University

Mark C. Anderson

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Hussein A. Warsame

University of Calgary

Date Written: January 15, 2014

Abstract

Using event study methodology in a Canadian setting, this paper investigates whether the information content of earnings announcements increased for Canadian Venture Exchange (TSXV) firms and Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) firms following mandatory adoption of international financial reporting standards (IFRS) in Canada. Comparing the two exchanges is interesting because there is generally more information asymmetry between investors and TSXV firms than between investors and TSX firms. A priori, it may be argued that there would be higher information content in the IFRS based earnings announcements for both TSXV and TSX exchange firms in Canada as compared to the Canadian GAAP based earnings announcements because IFRS allows greater flexibility to provide relevant information. If IFRS enables higher transfer of information through earnings announcements, this may benefit investors in TSXV firms more than investors in TSX firms. However, the additional flexibility to provide relevant information in the IFRS-based annual earnings announcements might reduce reliability by increasing uncertainty in the information of the earnings announcements. Our findings indicate that the information content, measured by abnormal stock return volatility and abnormal trading volume during the announcement period, decreased following the adoption of IFRS for both TSXV firms and TSX firms. The results of this study are relevant for US policy makers in their decision to implement IFRS.

Keywords: Information content, IFRS, Financial Accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Shahid and Anderson, Mark C. and Warsame, Hussein A., Do IFRS Based Earnings Announcements Have More Information Content than Canadian GAAP Based Earnings Announcements? (January 15, 2014). 2014 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the U. K
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Dan Amiram
Financial information globalization and foreign investment decisions
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 81 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Christopher S Armstrong
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The accounting review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Wolfgang Aussenegg , Petra Inwinkl , Georg Thomas Schneider
Earnings Management and Local vs. International Accounting Standards of European Public Firms
Pages: 52 Posted: 3 Dec 2008 Last revised: 1 Jun 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,617
RANK
336,300
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies