Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Liabilities and Diversity in Practice Under International Financial Reporting Standards

Forthcoming in Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal

2014 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

37 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2014 Last revised: 3 May 2016

Giovanna Michelon

University of Padua

Thomas Ervin Schneider

Independent

Michael S. Maier

University of Alberta - Alberta School of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2015

Abstract

Our purpose is to encourage accounting regulators to address diversity in practice in the reporting of environmental liabilities. When Canada changed to IFRS in 2011, Canadian regulators asked the IFRS Interpretations Committee to interpret whether the discount rate to value environmental liabilities should be a risk-free discount rate. Old Canadian GAAP, and current U.S. GAAP, allow for a higher discount rate, resulting in commensurately lower liabilities. International regulators refused to address this issue expecting no diversity in practice in Canada. We investigate discount rate choices for a sample of Canadian oil and gas and mining firms and we show the expectation of no diversity in practice was wrong. Significant diversity in practice is evident: about one third of the sample firms choose a higher discount rate, avoiding a major increase in environmental liabilities on transition to IFRS. The evidence suggests that these firms had relatively larger environmental liabilities and that the discount rate decision is a strategic choice. The current diversity in practice in accounting for environmental liabilities is not acceptable as it is not consistent with the enhancing qualitative characteristic of comparability under the Conceptual Framework. Accounting regulators should act to create consistent and comparable reporting practice. Firms and managers facing larger environmental liabilities can choose to minimize environmental liabilities under IFRS, while it is the general public and society at large that bear the ultimate risk. The paper pushes forward the debate on whether recognised environmental liabilities should reflect the interests of equity investors, or if other investors and stakeholders should be taken into account.

Keywords: environmental accounting, environmental liabilities, environmental provisions, IAS 37, discount rate

Suggested Citation:

Michelon, Giovanna and Schneider, Thomas Ervin and Maier, Michael, Environmental Liabilities and Diversity in Practice Under International Financial Reporting Standards (December 1, 2015). Forthcoming in Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal, 2014 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman
Quantitative techniques for the assessment of credit risk
AFP Exchange , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 6 - 12 Posted: 2003
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,063
RANK
285,369
4 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies