Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Equity's Diversification Illusion: Evidence From Fair Value Accounting

47 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2014 Last revised: 7 Nov 2018

Kyle Welch

George Washington University; George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Stephen Stubben

University of Utah

Date Written: November 1, 2018

Abstract

Private equity fund managers, pension fund managers, and investment advisers assert that private equity investments diversify investors’ portfolios. We show that cost-based methods of accounting understate the systematic risk of private equity, creating an illusion of diversification. After European private equity funds switched to fair value accounting following their adoption of IAS 39, correlations between accounting-based private equity returns and those of public equity markets increased and private equity funds’ access to capital decreased. Our results are consistent with an illusion of diversification that (1) affected investors’ perceptions of risk and investment in private equity and (2) was corrected when private equity firms’ change to fair value accounting more accurately conveyed the true risk of PE investments to investors.

Keywords: private equity, diversification, fair value accounting, IAS 39

JEL Classification: G11, G15, G23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Welch, Kyle and Stubben, Stephen, Private Equity's Diversification Illusion: Evidence From Fair Value Accounting (November 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A Ang , B Chen , W N Goetzmann , L Phalippou
Estimating private equity returns from limited partner cash flows
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1751 - 1783 Posted: 2018
Crossref
M Anson
Performance measurement in private equity: Another look at the lagged beta effect. The Journal of Private Equity , p. 29 - 44 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E Appelbaum , R Batt
Fees, Fees and More Fees: How Private Equity Abuses Its Limited Partners and US Taxpayers (No. 2016-06) Posted: 2016
Artivest
How to talk to your clients about private equity's diversification benefit Posted: 2016-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,812
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,472
RANK
10,742
6 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies