Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unravelling the ‘Black Box’ of the Accounting Profession: Evidence from the IFRS for SMEs

2014 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

56 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2014 Last revised: 26 Jan 2017

Alessandro Ghio

ESCP Business School

Roberto Verona

University of Pisa

Date Written: January 18, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the logics that drive small accounting practitioners’ attitude towards new accounting standards and then, the heterogeneity amongst practitioners in order to unravel the accounting profession, until now considered as a ‘black box’ in the accounting harmonization process. Through the analysis of an extensive survey of 1,268 Italian Certified Accountants and ten interviews with presidents of local professional associations regarding an ongoing accounting harmonization project (i.e., the IFRS for SMEs), we first document the coexistence of competitive logics in driving small accounting practitioners’ attitude towards the new accounting standards. Secondly, we demonstrate the role of social characteristics in fragmenting the community of the accounting profession, in particular concerning new accounting harmonization projects. This paper contributes to the literature on the relation between the profession and accounting harmonization. The results are informative to policy makers in understanding the implementation process of the accounting harmonization process.

Keywords: IFRS for SMEs, Chartered Accountants, harmonization

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ghio, Alessandro and Verona, Roberto, Unravelling the ‘Black Box’ of the Accounting Profession: Evidence from the IFRS for SMEs (January 18, 2017). 2014 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379716 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379716
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
J Alvehus , A Spicer
Financialization as a strategy of workplace control in professional service firms
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 497 - 510 Posted: 2012
Crossref
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Tests of time: organizational time-reckoning and the making of accountants in two multi-national accounting firms. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 26 , p. 99 - 122 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Helping them to forget
the organizational embedding of gender relations in public audit firms. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 30 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
M Annisette , V U Trivedi
Globalization, paradox and the (un) making of identities: Immigrant Chartered Accountants of India in Canada
Accounting, organizations and society , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
295
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,130
RANK
235,913
2 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies