Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Culture and Cost Stickiness: A Cross-Country Study

International Journal of Accounting, 51(3), 402-417

Posted: 16 Jan 2014 Last revised: 10 Sep 2016

Karen A. Kitching

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Raj Mashruwala

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Date Written: September 9, 2016

Abstract

In this study, we examine the effect of national culture on managerial decision-making through the lens of cost stickiness. Recent studies document that managerial discretion in adjusting resources leads to costs that are “sticky” in that costs respond less to decreases in activity than to increases in activity. We analyze how different dimensions of societal culture explain cross-country variation in cost stickiness. Using a sample of firms from 39 countries, we find that cost stickiness is less pronounced in countries with higher uncertainty avoidance, masculinity, and long-term orientation. Our findings support the proposition that culture affects resource management decisions made by managers and, in doing so, our study makes a significant contribution in understanding differences in sticky cost behavior observed across countries.

Keywords: culture, cost behavior, cost stickiness

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kitching, Karen A. and Mashruwala, Raj and Pevzner, Mikhail, Culture and Cost Stickiness: A Cross-Country Study (September 9, 2016). International Journal of Accounting, 51(3), 402-417, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379776 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379776
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,720
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies