Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Ghana and the Quality of Financial Statement Disclosures

Macrothink Institute, International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, ISSN 2162-3082 2013, Vol. 3, No. 2

18 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2014

Ben Kwame Agyei-Mensah

Solbridge International School of Business

Date Written: December 19, 2013

Abstract

According to the IASB's IFRS framework, qualitative characteristics are the attributes that make the information provided in financial statements useful to others. This study was conducted to investigate the quality of financial reports before and after adopting IFRSs in Ghana, and also the influence of firm-specific characteristics which include firm size, profitability, debt equity ratio, liquidity and audit firm size on the quality of financial information disclosed by firms listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange. The research was conducted through detailed analysis of the pre-official adoption period, (2006) and post adoption period, (2008) financial statements of the listed firms. Descriptive analysis was performed to provide the background statistics of the variables examined. This was followed by regression analysis which forms the main data analysis. The results of the quality of financial information disclosure mean of 76.80% (pre adoption) and 87.09% (post adoption) for the two years indicate that the quality of financial reports has improved significantly after adopting IFRSs. The study thus confirms that the implementation of IFRSs generally reinforce accounting disclosure quality. It also indicates listed firms' overwhelming compliance with the IASB's IFRS Framework. The results of the multiple regression analysis show that company size, represented by net assets and Auditor type were found to be associated at a statistically significant level with the quality of financial information disclosed. With the improvement in the quality of the financial reports after adopting IFRS users are assured of useful information for financial decision-making.

Keywords: Quality of financial reports' disclosure, Firm-specific characteristics, International Financial Reporting Standards, Mandatory disclosure, Ghana

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Agyei-Mensah, Ben Kwame, Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Ghana and the Quality of Financial Statement Disclosures (December 19, 2013). Macrothink Institute, International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, ISSN 2162-3082 2013, Vol. 3, No. 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2381637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Ben Kwame Agyei-Mensah
The Association between Firm-Specific Characteristics and Financial Information Disclosure Levels: A Study of Rural Banks in the Ashanti Region of Ghana
Pages: 20 Posted: 25 May 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Association Between Corporate Characteristics and Disclosure Levels in Annual Reports: A Meta-Analysis , volume 132 Posted: 1999
Crossref
K Ahmed , Des Nicolls
The Impact of Nonfinancial Company Characteristics on Mandatory Disclosure Compliance in Developing Countries: The Case of Bangladesh
International Journal of Accounting Education Research , volume 29 Posted: 1994
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate mandatory disclosure practices in Bangladesh
International Journal of Accounting Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,683
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,917
RANK
24,348
5 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies