Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Effects of IFRS Adoption in Brazil: An Empirical Analysis of Stock Price Synchronicity

25 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2014

Verônica Santana

University of São Paulo (USP)

Raquel Sarquis

FEA-USP

Isabel Lourenço

Lisbon University Institute (ISCTE-IUL); University of São Paulo (USP)

Bruno Salotti

FEA-USP

Fernando Murcia

FEA-USP

Date Written: January 2014

Abstract

This study aims to identify the impact of IFRS adoption in stock price synchronicity of Brazilian capital market through its influence on how much and in which way firm-specific information is incorporated by stock prices. There are divergences in the literature about how IFRS adoption (specially the mandatory adoption) affects synchronicity in countries with poorer institutions. Our results indicate that IFRS adoption in Brazil has reduced stock price synchronicity and, consequently, increased the efficiency of resource allocation and potential portfolio diversification. These findings support the view that IFRS adoption facilitates firm-specific information flows into the market, improving the informational environment. This findings show that investment conditions in Brazil have improved, opening better opportunities for foreign investments on the country, contributing to financial globalization and market integration.

Keywords: IFRS, Stock Price Synchronicity, Brazil, Informational Environment

JEL Classification: M41, O16, N26

Suggested Citation:

Santana, Verônica and Sarquis, Raquel and Lourenço, Isabel and Salotti, Bruno and Murcia, Fernando, Economic Effects of IFRS Adoption in Brazil: An Empirical Analysis of Stock Price Synchronicity (January 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2383363 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2383363
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Christof Beuselinck , Philip Joos , Inder Khurana , Sofie Van der Meulen
Mandatory IFRS Reporting and Stock Price Informativeness
Pages: 54 Posted: 16 Apr 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bm&amp;fbovespa
Índice Bovespa -Ibovespa Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,954
RANK
113,582
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies