Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Conservatism on Cost of Capital: MENA Evidence

Applied Economics, 2014

Posted: 23 Jan 2014 Last revised: 17 Oct 2014

Khalifa Maha

Higher Institute of Commerce and Business Administration

Ben Othman Hakim

Higher Institute of Commerce and Business Administration

Date Written: December 20, 2013

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the economic consequences of accounting conservatism in Middle Eastern and North Africa (MENA) economies. In particular, motivated by the lack of empirical tests concerning economic effects of conservatism in MENA countries, the paper examines the impact of conditional conservatism on firms’ cost of equity capital and the effect of two mechanisms of conservatism: bad news recognition and good news recognition on cost of equity. The firm-year measure of conditional conservatism is calculated using Khan and Watts’ (2009) model and the cost of equity capital is computed based on Estrada’s (2000) approach. As predicted, we find evidence of a negative relation between conditional conservatism and cost of equity capital using a sample of companies pertaining to MENA emerging markets. We also find that the two mechanisms of conservatism reduce the cost of equity capital. The finding of this paper can be used by standard-setters to review their opinion about the beneficial effect of conservatism. This study presents the first attempt in MENA countries to provide empirical evidence on the effect of conditional conservatism on the cost of equity capital.

Keywords: conditional consrevatism; cost of equity capital, MENA

JEL Classification: G10, G15, G18, G30, G32, G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Maha, Khalifa and Hakim, Ben Othman, The Effect of Conservatism on Cost of Capital: MENA Evidence (December 20, 2013). Applied Economics, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2383743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2383743
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,166
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies