Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Financial Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts in Spain

Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad/Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2014

Pascual Garrido Miralles

University of Alicante-Finance & Accounting

Sonia Sanabria

Universidad de Alicante-Dpto. Economía Financiera

Date Written: January 21, 2014

Abstract

This study contributes to investigation into the benefits of mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in regard to Spanish GAAP for analysts’ earnings forecasts. In a sample of listed Spanish firms we find that mandatory IFRS adoption led to improvements in the quality of the information provided to financial analysts in the post-adoption period. We provide evidence that the benefits of IFRS take time to materialise. We also observe that the expected benefits and costs of IFRS adoption in relation to financial analysts’ forecasts were not randomly distributed among Spanish firms. In terms of analysts’ earnings forecast error and dispersion after implementation of IFRS, benefits are concentrated mainly in firms audited by the Big 4 audit firms.

Keywords: Analysts’ earnings forecast error and dispersion; Mandatory International Financial Reporting Standards; Spanish GAAP; Big 4 audits

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Garrido Miralles, Pascual and Sanabria, Sonia, The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Financial Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts in Spain (January 21, 2014). Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad/Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2383347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standard choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,501
RANK
268,746
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies