Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on IPOs in Global Capital Markets

The Accounting Review, Volume 89, Issue 4, 2014

52 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2014 Last revised: 17 Feb 2017

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: January 30, 2014

Abstract

This study examines the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on IPO underpricing and the relative amount of IPO capital raised in foreign markets. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find a decrease in IPO underpricing and an increase in the relative proceeds from foreign markets following mandatory IFRS adoption. We also find that mandatory IFRS adoption has a greater impact on IPO underpricing and relative foreign proceeds for firms in countries with a larger number of accounting changes, and this relation is more pronounced among firms in countries with stronger implementation credibility. In addition, we find that the decrease in underpricing associated with mandatory IFRS adoption holds for both domestic IPOs and global IPOs, and this effect is more pronounced for global IPOs than for domestic IPOs. Overall, our study contributes to the literature by documenting the impact of changes in financial accounting standards on IPO underpricing and capital market globalization.

Keywords: initial public offerings; International Financial Reporting Standards; underpricing; financial globalization

JEL Classification: G15, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Hyun A. and Hung, Mingyi and Lobo, Gerald J., The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on IPOs in Global Capital Markets (January 30, 2014). The Accounting Review, Volume 89, Issue 4, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2388045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
G Akerlof
The market for "Lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analyst
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Beatty , J Ritter
Investment banking, reputation, and the underpricing of initial public offerings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 15 , p. 213 - 232 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
865
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,820
RANK
64,018
16 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies