Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate and Integrated Reporting: A Functional Perspective

Chapter 9 in Corporate Stewardship: Achieving Sustainable Effectiveness, edited by Ed Lawler, Sue Mohrman, and James O’Toole, Greenleaf, 2015.

21 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014 Last revised: 24 May 2018

Robert G. Eccles

University of Oxford - Said Business School

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

In this paper, we present the two primary functions of corporate reporting (information and transformation) and why currently isolated financial and sustainability reporting are not likely to perform effectively those functions. We describe the concept of integrated reporting and why integrated reporting could be a superior mechanism to perform these functions. Moreover, we discuss, through a series of case studies, what constitutes an effective integrated report (Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company) and the role of regulation in integrated reporting (Anglo-American).

Keywords: corporate reporting, integrated reporting, information, investing, sustainability, accounting

JEL Classification: G3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Eccles, Robert G. and Serafeim, George, Corporate and Integrated Reporting: A Functional Perspective (January 31, 2014). Chapter 9 in Corporate Stewardship: Achieving Sustainable Effectiveness, edited by Ed Lawler, Sue Mohrman, and James O’Toole, Greenleaf, 2015., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2388716 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2388716
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Eli Amir , Baruch Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Christine Botosan
Disclosure Level and the Cost of Equity Capital
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 349 Posted: 1997
Beiting Cheng , Ioannis Ioannou , George Serafeim
Corporate Social Responsibility and Access to Finance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Dan Dhaliwal , Oliver Zhen Li , Albert Tsang , Yong George Yang
Voluntary Nonfinancial Disclosure and the Cost of Equity Capital: The Initiation of Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 100 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,034
ABSTRACT VIEWS
34,391
RANK
3,032
27 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies