Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restoring the Tower of Babel: How Foreign Firms Communicate with US Investors

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014

Russell J. Lundholm

University of British Columbia - Sauder School of Business

Rafael Rogo

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Jenny Li Zhang

University of British Columbia - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2013

Abstract

We examine the readability of text and the use of numbers in the annual filings and earnings press releases of foreign firms listed on US stock exchanges. We find that foreign firms generally write clearer text and present relatively more numerical data than their US firm counterparts. More importantly, we find that the readability of the text and use of numbers increases as the foreign firms get geographically further from the US. It also increases as the foreign firm’s home country has greater differences in accounting standards or investor protection laws relative to the US. Further corroborating our results, we also find that these communication efforts are partially successful. Within a country, firms that produce relatively more readable disclosures attract relatively more US institutional ownership. Collectively our results suggest that foreign firms are responding to a perceived reluctance on the part of US investors to own them and attempt to lower the investors’ information disadvantage or psychological distance by providing clearer and more concrete disclosures.

Keywords: home bias, readability, communication, foreign firms

JEL Classification: F30, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lundholm, Russell J. and Rogo, Rafael and Zhang, Jenny Li, Restoring the Tower of Babel: How Foreign Firms Communicate with US Investors (November 30, 2013). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2388979
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
618
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,240
RANK
99,374
60 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies