Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Uses Financial Reports and for What Purpose? Evidence from Capital Providers

Accounting in Europe 11 (2): 185-209, December 2014

42 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2014 Last revised: 9 Jan 2015

Stefano Cascino

London School of Economics

Mark A. Clatworthy

University of Bristol Business School

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Joachim Gassen

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Shahed Imam

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Thomas Jeanjean

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control; ESSEC Business School

Date Written: July 8, 2014

Abstract

We review the academic literature on the use of financial reporting information by capital providers. We classify our findings by investor type and by information objective. While most capital providers use accounting information, our survey indicates that they do so in a variety of ways with financial reporting information competing with other sources of information. We also find that information intermediaries are influential in both credit and equity markets, making the identification of a typical target ‘user’ inherently difficult. Our main findings question the underlying objective of the Conceptual Framework to guide the development of standards for general-purpose financial statements to provide a typical knowledgeable investor with a true and fair view about the reporting entity. Finally, we identify gaps in the literature and suggest areas where future research can help inform important academic and policy debates.

Keywords: Capital providers; Conceptual framework; Financial reporting information

JEL Classification: G18, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cascino, Stefano and Clatworthy, Mark A. and Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Gassen, Joachim and Imam, Shahed and Jeanjean, Thomas and Jeanjean, Thomas, Who Uses Financial Reports and for What Purpose? Evidence from Capital Providers (July 8, 2014). Accounting in Europe 11 (2): 185-209, December 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2389752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2389752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
214 References
J S Abarbanell , V L Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behaviour
The Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,828
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,664
RANK
10,624
16 Citations
214 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies