Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Forecasts and the Cost of Equity Capital: International Evidence

Asian Finance Association (AsianFA) 2014 Conference Paper

68 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2014 Last revised: 7 Oct 2016

Ying Cao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Yong George Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2016

Abstract

In this paper, we examine international differences in the effect of management forecasts (which we use to proxy for voluntary disclosure) on the cost of equity capital (COC) across 31 countries. We find that the issuance of management forecasts is associated with a lower COC worldwide, but the effect of management forecasts on the COC is conditional on country-level institutional factors. Specifically, management forecasts have a stronger effect on the COC in countries with stronger investor protection and with better information dissemination, and a weaker effect in countries with higher mandatory disclosure requirements. Further analyses reveal that these relations are more pronounced when management forecasts are more frequent, more precise, and more disaggregated. Overall, our findings suggest that the ability of management forecasts to reduce firms’ COC derives not only from country-level factors that enhance the credibility of their forecasts, but also from factors that reflect the quality of the information environment in terms of the distribution of news and the availability and quality of alternative information. Thus, investor protection, media penetration, and mandatory disclosure requirements have an important effect on the ability of management forecasts to lower the COC.

Keywords: Management Forecasts, Voluntary Disclosure, International, Cost of Capital

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M45, G29, G12

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Ying and Myers, Linda A. and Tsang, Albert and Yang, Yong George, Management Forecasts and the Cost of Equity Capital: International Evidence (October 2016). Asian Finance Association (AsianFA) 2014 Conference Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2389679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2389679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
J L Rogers , P C Stocken
Credibility of management forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 4 , p. 1233 - 1260 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P A Saffi , K Sigurdsson
Price efficiency and short selling
Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , p. 821 - 852 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Skinner
Why firms voluntarily disclose bad news
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , p. 38 - 60 Posted: 1994
Crossref
P C Stocken
Credibility of voluntary disclosure
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 31 , p. 359 - 374 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,023
RANK
110,264
7 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies