Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Book-Tax Differences in Seven Major Countries

52 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2014

Erlend Kvaal

BI Norwegian Business School

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: October 28, 2013

Abstract

This paper proposes an indicator of book-tax difference, based on the sum of the absolute amounts of permanent and timing differences. Using this, we first trace the development of book-tax differences over 18 years in seven major countries. We show that the indicator has grown almost monotonically in all the countries, and that the ranking of countries has been stable. Our research questions are: what causes the international variation in book-tax differences, and how and why do the differences change over time? To address these, we regress our indicator on a number of accounting items. We find that several items associated with book-tax conformity are highly significant causes of book-tax differences, which leads us to believe that our indicator can serve as a quantitative measure of book-tax conformity. To explain the causes of variation over time, we compare the results of three six-year periods, enabling an assessment of the effect of IFRS from 2005.

Keywords: book-tax conformity; book-tax differences; international standards; international differences; deferred tax

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kvaal, Erlend and Nobes, Christopher William, The Development of Book-Tax Differences in Seven Major Countries (October 28, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2391780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2391780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,438
RANK
198,294
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies