Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS Adoption During the 2008 Financial Crisis on the Relationship between Yield and Accounting Variables

Accounting & Taxation, v. 6 (1) p. 51-67

18 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2014

Salem Lotfi Boumediene

University of Illinois Springfield

Olfa Nafti

University of Manouba

Emna Boumediene

University of Manouba

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This research tests the impact of the financial crisis on the informational content of accounting numbers. The study is based on IAS-IFRS in the French context. The period chosen in this study is 2006 to 2011, divided into two periods: Pre-crisis 2006-2007 and post-crisis 2009-2010-2011. The results show the 2008 financial crisis contributed to reducing the information content of accounting numbers due to lack of confidence created by investors towards the information published on the basis of international standards.

Keywords: IAS-IFRS, Crisis, Accounting Information and Performance

JEL Classification: C12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Boumediene, Salem Lotfi and Nafti, Olfa and Boumediene, Emna, The Impact of IFRS Adoption During the 2008 Financial Crisis on the Relationship between Yield and Accounting Variables (2014). Accounting & Taxation, v. 6 (1) p. 51-67, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2391374
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,506
RANK
180,834
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies