Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk and Profitability in Middle East and North Africa Banking System: An Examination of Off Balance Sheet Activities

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 8 (3) p. 13-26

14 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2014

Ahmad Y. Khasawneh

Hashemite University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administrative

Husam Aldeen Al-Khadash

Hashemite University - Accounting Department

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This study analyzes the role of off-balance sheet activities in banks profitability and banks risk in the Middle East and North Africa banking system. The uniqueness of this study stems from the investigation timing of and its sample data. The study covers the period covering the 2006/2007 financial crises. We form our sample from Middle East and North Africa banking system, including different countries and different bank types. The results indicate that off balance sheet activities are risk reducing as well as profit generators in Middle East and North Africa banks. The results also indicate the effect of off balance sheet activities on banks profitability is higher in the case of banks located in oil producing countries. There is no significant difference between the impact of off balance sheet activities and bank risk for banks located in oil producing countries. Furthermore, the results show that commercial bank profitability is more sensitive to off balance sheet activities. Bank risk is more sensitive to off balance sheet activities in case of Islamic banks.

Keywords: Bank Risk, Bank Performance, Off Balance Sheet Activities, MENA Banking System, Islamic Versus Commercial Banks

JEL Classification: G21, G32

Suggested Citation:

Khasawneh, Ahmad Y. and Al-Khadash, Husam Aldeen, Risk and Profitability in Middle East and North Africa Banking System: An Examination of Off Balance Sheet Activities (2014). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 8 (3) p. 13-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2394709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,196
RANK
210,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies