Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Backgrounds of Accounting Standard Setters and Changes in the Current Value Orientation of IFRS

44 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2014 Last revised: 20 Jan 2017

Marcus Witzky

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Centre for Analysis of Risk and Regulation

Date Written: January 1, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates whether and how the professional backgrounds of International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) members are associated with changes in the current value orientation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Current value measurement bases include fair value measurement and related approaches. I find IASB members with prior experience in private accounting standard setting or in the preparation of financial statements to be positively associated with increases in the current value orientation. Weaker evidence suggests the same for former users of financial statements. In contrast, IASB members with prior experience as public regulators, auditors or accounting professors are negatively associated with increases in the current value orientation. In line with the upper echelons theory, I interpret the professional backgrounds of IASB members as proxies for idiosyncratic characteristics which filter and distort information perception. Hence, even in the absence of ideology or regulatory capture standard setters might not be neutral and their professional backgrounds would be of strategic importance when selecting new IASB members.

Keywords: Standard Setting, IASB, IFRS, Current Value, Fair Value, Upper Echelons Theory

JEL Classification: D72, D78, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Witzky, Marcus, Professional Backgrounds of Accounting Standard Setters and Changes in the Current Value Orientation of IFRS (January 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2394193 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2394193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact of foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,321
RANK
262,460
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies