Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How IFRS Affects Value Relevance and Key Financial Indicators? Evidence from the UK

International Review of Accounting, Banking and Finance, Vol.7, No.1, pp.73-96

24 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2014 Last revised: 29 Oct 2024

Ihlas Sovbetov

Istanbul Aydin University

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper has two contributions to the International Financial Reporting Stands (IFRS) adoption literature. First is the scrutinizing impact of IFRS adoption on value relevance in the UK with TEST-A analysis under the H01 hypothesis. The second contribution is capturing the impact of IFRS adoption on key financial indicators of firms with the TEST-B analysis that hypothesizes H02. The statistical differences of items of two different reporting standards are examined with non-parametric tests as all input variables failed the Shapiro-Wilk and Lilliefors normality tests in TEST-A. The finding rejects the H01 hypothesis for BvMv, and agrees that IFRS has impact on value relevance. Besides, Ohlson’s (1995) model documents that the coefficient of dummy variable (MODE) is positive. Therefore, the analysis concludes that IFRS has positive impact on value relevance. The aftermath of TEST-B rejects the H02 hypothesis for all profitability ratios (ROE, ROCE, ROA, PM) and gearing ratios (GR). It concludes that profitability and gearing ratios are affected by IFRS adoption, whereas efficiency-liquidity ratios are not. Also, in Forward Stepwise regression analysis only ROCE, ROA, and PM ratios show significant results. The analysis documents positive and significant impact of IFRS on these three ratios.

Keywords: IFRS, UK GAAP, IFRS Adoption, Value Relevance

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Sovbetov, Ihlas, How IFRS Affects Value Relevance and Key Financial Indicators? Evidence from the UK (March 1, 2015). International Review of Accounting, Banking and Finance, Vol.7, No.1, pp.73-96, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2394507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2394507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A A Adzis
The Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on Bank Loan Loss Provisioning Behaviour and Bank Earnings Volatility Posted: 2012
A Agca , R Aktas
First Time Application of IFRS and Its Impact on Financial Ratios: A Study on Turkish Listed Firms
Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 112 Posted: 2007
M Arouri , A Levy , D K Nguyen
ROE and Value Creation under IAS/IFRS: Evidence of Discordance from French Firms
European Financial and Accounting Journal , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 84 - 112 Posted: 2010
M Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
509
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,021
RANK
126,921
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies