Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Dividends of Indonesian Listed Firms

29 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2014

Yanthi Hutagaol

BINUS BUSINESS SCHOOL; Binus Business School

Aljosa Valentincic

University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: February 14, 2014

Abstract

Using a large sample of 3,066 firm-year observations, representing 372 distinct firms listed on IDX during the period 1995-2012, we show that dividends are reliably positively priced by the capital market, violating thus the dividend displacement theorem. This result persists even after controlling for some typical factors that affect firm value (capital structure, risk) and the effect of factors not separately identified, but priced by the capital market (other information). Dividends are positively correlated to future profitability over and above current accounting earnings. Both findings show that dividends play a central role on the Indonesian capital market. The also results show the extent to which dividends displace information for value and forecasting in other accounting variables. We also model “other information” that captures institutional factors that we are unable to model explicitly. Finally, we show evidence that earnings management after 2002 is contractually-efficient rather than opportunistic.

Keywords: dividend valuation, forecasting earnings, accounting models of value

Suggested Citation:

Hutagaol, Yanthi and Hutagaol, Yanthi and Valentincic, Aljosa, Valuation of Dividends of Indonesian Listed Firms (February 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2396132 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2396132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S A W Akbar , Stark
Deflators, Net Shareholder Cash Flows, Dividends, Capital Contributions and Estimated Models of Corporate Valuation
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 30 , p. 1211 - 1244 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Baker , Powell
Dividend policy in Indonesia: survey evidence from executives
Journal of Asia Business Studies , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 92 Posted: 2012
R Ball , A Robin , &amp; J. Shung Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
W F S Chua , Taylor
The rise and rise of IFRS: An examination of IFRS diffusion
Journal of Accounting & Public Policy , volume 27 , p. 462 - 473 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,834
RANK
357,528
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies