Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Country Evidence on the Relation between Capital Gains Taxes, Risk, and Expected Returns

57 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2014 Last revised: 16 Jan 2016

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Stephanie A. Sikes

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Clare Wang

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 27, 2015

Abstract

This study empirically examines the role of risk sharing between taxable investors and the government on the relation between capital gains taxes and expected returns. Specifically, using an international panel from 26 countries over the period 1990 to 2004, we find evidence that the general positive relation between capital gains taxes and expected returns becomes weaker or even reverses when (i) a firm’s systematic risk is high, (ii) the market risk premium is high, or (iii) the risk-free rate is low. The results are particularly pronounced in countries with substantive changes in tax rates, more trust in government institutions, less integrated and less liquid capital markets, and lower foreign institutional ownership as well as around substantive increases and decreases in the risk parameters. We corroborate our findings in a single country setting, using the 1978, 1997, and 2003 capital gains tax rate changes in the United States as events. Our results underscore the importance of macroeconomic and firm-specific factors in determining the effect of tax capitalization, and suggest that tax rate changes can sometimes have opposite valuation implications than what policymakers have in mind.

Keywords: Tax capitalization, Personal taxes, Market risk, Cost of capital, Risk sharing, International economics

JEL Classification: G12, G15, G32, H24, K34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hail, Luzi and Sikes, Stephanie A. and Wang, Clare, Cross-Country Evidence on the Relation between Capital Gains Taxes, Risk, and Expected Returns (November 27, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401511 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2401511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Committee on Ways and Means
th Congress report Posted: 2003
C Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Auerbach
Share valuation and corporate equity policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 11 , p. 291 - 305 Posted: 1979
Crossref
A Auerbach , L Burman , J Siegel
Capital gains taxation and tax avoidance: new evidence from panel data Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,152
RANK
79,099
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies