Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Comprehensive Income Value Relevant and Does Location Matter? A European Study

Accounting in Europe, A Journal of the European Accounting Association, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2014

Alessandro Mechelli

Università degli studi della Tuscia

Riccardo Cimini

Università degli studi della Tuscia; Università degli studi di Roma, Tor Vergata

Date Written: September 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper investigates the relative and the incremental value relevance of Comprehensive Income (CI) and Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) across European countries after the mandatory adoption of the IASB standards. This topic, which has already been analyzed in other countries, drew the attention of academics and practitioners in Europe after the issuance of IAS 1-revised, which requires entities to prepare a statement of comprehensive income (SOCI) in which both CI and OCI components are disclosed. The investigation of the value relevance of accounting amounts is important in order to evaluate their usefulness, because it highlights whether they reflect information investors use in making economic decisions. This study analyses a sample made of all the European listed entities of countries belonging to the EU at the date of issuance of EU Regulation 1606/2002. Our analysis involves a period from 2006 to 2011 and includes 16,511 firm-year observations. Our results show that Net Income (NI) is more value-relevant than CI, even though the total OCI of the period adds relevant information to those information already disclosed in other accounting items such as NI and Book Value (BV). In this regard, we found that the coefficient of the total OCI of the period is lower than that of NI, a result to be expected because of its transitory nature. Our findings also suggest that the requirement to issue a SOCI has not produced a significant change in the value relevance of both CI and the total OCI of the period leading to the conclusion that its location does not affect the value relevance of these items. Finally, we found significant differences in the incremental value relevance of the total OCI of the period across European countries, differences that seem to be caused by the countries’ characteristics, such as the source of funds (credit/equity and insider/outsider) and the legal systems.

Keywords: IAS 1; comprehensive income; value relevance; legal enforcement; investor protection

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Mechelli, Alessandro and Cimini, Riccardo, Is Comprehensive Income Value Relevant and Does Location Matter? A European Study (September 1, 2013). Accounting in Europe, A Journal of the European Accounting Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2406601 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2406601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
P-Value
The table summarizes the principal results of our value relevance study when we distinguished the accumulated OCI from the other book value purged by accumulated OCI, first for the full sample of 16,511 firm-year observations listed in the 15 European countries that belonged to the EU at the time of issuance of Regulation 1606/2002 and then for sub-samples constituted by the weak and strongequity countries and the countries with high and low level of Legalscore. Variable definitions: Pit = price per-share at the reporting date
** ) 1% level of significance -( ** ) 5% level of significance -( * ) 10% level of significance
BVit = book value per-share
Crossref
= book value per-share purged by accumulated OCI; NIit net income per-share
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,580
RANK
186,369
3 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies