Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating Prediction Markets into the Due Process of International Accounting Standard Setting - A Possible Path to Achieving Legitimate Accounting Standards

The Journal of Prediction Markets, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2014 Last revised: 13 Sep 2017

Karsten Eisenschmidt

Fachhochschule Kiel: University of Applied Sciences

Matthias Schmidt

University of Leipzig - Chair of Financial Accounting and Auditing

Date Written: April 25, 2014

Abstract

The authors present the idea of integrating prediction markets into the IASB’s due process of accounting standards development in order to assure the legitimacy of IFRS. They refer to the constitutional economics concept of hypothetical consent and further substantiate literature claims that the legitimacy of any regulation with a lack of governmental control should be linked to adequate processes of rule development. The authors argue that standard-setting procedures which integrate market solutions into the search process for legitimate standards outperform pure discourse solutions that dominate contemporary accounting regulation. The prediction market approach is of particular interest because it addresses the identified major legitimacy concerns regarding the IASB’s current due process. Compared to other market solutions, prediction markets could be integrated relatively easily into the current institutional setting of global accounting regulation. The authors therefore suggest a basic design of a due process for the IASB that utilises a prediction market. The main contributions of the article are as follows: (1) it expands literature on the legitimacy of global standard setting in accounting; (2) it offers a new market approach to international accounting regulation and (3) it generally furthers the theoretical foundation for proposing prediction markets for regulatory purposes. The authors finally provide arguments as to how a prediction market approach could (re-)align standard setting and academic accounting research.

Keywords: Standard Setting; Legitimacy; IASB; Prediction Markets; Due Process

JEL Classification: G10, G18, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eisenschmidt, Karsten and Schmidt, Matthias, Integrating Prediction Markets into the Due Process of International Accounting Standard Setting - A Possible Path to Achieving Legitimate Accounting Standards (April 25, 2014). The Journal of Prediction Markets, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2408517 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2408517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Kenneth J Arrow
Social choice and individual values Posted: 1963
Kenneth J. Arrow , Shyam Sunder , Robert Forsythe , Robert E. Litan , Eric W. Zitzewitz , Michael Gorham , Robert W. Hahn , Robin Hanson , Daniel Kahneman , John O. Ledyard , Saul Levmore , Paul R. Milgrom , Forrest D. Nelson , George R. Neumann , Marco Ottaviani , Charles R. Plott , Thomas C. Schelling , Robert J. Shiller , Vernon L. Smith , Erik C. Snowberg , Cass R. Sunstein , Paul C. Tetlock , Philip E. Tetlock , Hal R. Varian , Justin Wolfers
Statement on Prediction Markets
AEI-Brookings Joint Center Related Publication No. 07-11, Harvard Public Law Working Paper Forthcoming Pages: 8 Posted: 7 May 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mary E Barth
Research, standard setting, and global financial reporting , volume 1 , p. 71 - 165 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Mary E Barth
Global financial reporting: implications for U.S. academics , volume 83 , p. 1159 - 1179 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,800
RANK
355,843
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies