Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality and Drivers of Own Credit Risk Measurement Disclosures for Fair Value Liabilities by European Banks

48 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2014

Korbinian Eichner

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Controlling & Auditing

Hannes Mettler

University of St. Gallen

Date Written: March 19, 2014

Abstract

This research paper studies the quality of own credit (OC) risk disclosures in European banks by analyzing their annual reports. By defining and applying a self-developed disclosure index that incorporates both the (i) relative quantity and (ii) richness of the information provided, it is found out that disclosure in annual reports about own credit risk tends to be low on average. Furthermore, there is a great difference between disclosure qualities of the analyzed banks.

By using a multiple linear regression, various variables are tested for their influencing impact on OC disclosure quality. The analyzed variables were selected on a holistic basis and relate to a bank’s earnings situation (profit and loss statement view), risk situation (balance sheet view), return on invested capital situation (investors’ view), size and potential information asymmetries between the bank and investors.

Our results support the overall hypothesis that own credit disclosure is a function of firm-specific variables. A statistically significant impact is found for variables related to the impact of the own credit adjustment on the bank’s return on equity ratio (RoE) and the overall amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value. In case the impact is found to be large, banks disclose more and better information. We interpret these findings on the basis of the importance of the RoE performance measure in the financial industry. RoE represents a particularly important ratio for shareholders as it is often used as an approximation to what extend the bank was able to generate value for its shareholders. In general, our findings support rather the view that disclosure quality tends to be influenced to a higher degree by the own credit adjustments impact on banks’ earnings than by the potential risk structure of the banks liabilities.

Keywords: Own Credit Risk, Own Credit Measurement, Fair Value Liabilities, IFRS 9, IAS 39, Disclosure Quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eichner, Korbinian and Mettler, Hannes, The Quality and Drivers of Own Credit Risk Measurement Disclosures for Fair Value Liabilities by European Banks (March 19, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2411375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2411375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 34 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
Crossref
G Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
M Barth
Fair value accounting: evidence from investment securities and the market valuation of banks
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994
M Barth , W Beaver , W Landsman
Value-Relevance of Banks' Fair Value Disclosures under SFAS No. 107
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 513 - 537 Posted: 1996
Load more
1 Citations
Sebastian Kaumanns
“Some fuzzy math”: relational information on debt value adjustments by managers and the financial press
Business Research , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 755 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,648
RANK
161,684
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies