Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Market Reaction to SEC IFRS-Related Announcements: The Case of American Depository Receipt (ADR) Firms in the U.S.

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2014

Jenice J. Prather-Kinsey

University of Alabama at Birmingham

Paul Tanyi

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Charlotte - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 2, 2014

Abstract

The objective of our study is to test whether the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the United States (U.S.) is perceived positively by American Depository Receipt (ADR) firms’ equity market participants. We conduct our tests by studying market reactions to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) IFRS-related press releases between 2007 and 2011 regarding potential adoption of IFRS in the U.S. Using a sample of ADR firms and multivariate regression analyses, we test the 3-day cumulative abnormal returns (CAR) of investors of ADR firms in response to SEC announcements on potential IFRS adoption. We find a significant and positive market reaction to the SEC’s announcements related to the potential adoption of IFRS in the U.S. for ADR firms reporting their financial statements using IFRS, especially in the industry where IFRS is the globally predominant accounting standard. Conversely, we find a significantly negative market reaction to SEC related announcements of potential adoption of IFRS in the U.S. for ADR firms currently reporting their financial statements using U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We conclude that the SEC’s adoption of IFRS may benefit global and U.S. equity market participants relative to Local GAAP reporting (reporting using domestic GAAP that is not IFRS or U.S. GAAP) by providing a common basis for investors, issuers and others to evaluate investment opportunities.

Keywords: IFRS adoption, ADR firms, market reaction

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Prather-Kinsey, Jenice J. and Tanyi, Paul, The Market Reaction to SEC IFRS-Related Announcements: The Case of American Depository Receipt (ADR) Firms in the U.S. (April 2, 2014). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2419514 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2419514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A C Akyol , W F Lim , P Verwijmeren
Shareholders in the boardroom: Wealth effects of the SEC's proposal to facilitate director nominations
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 1029 - 1057 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosure in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
C Armstrong , M E Barth , A Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Anna Białek-Jaworska , Paulina Szymanek
Investors’ reaction to banning IFRS use by domestic firms in alternative market
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 355 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,978
RANK
249,957
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies