Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Value Relevance of Accounting Data after IFRS Introduction in Europe

44 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2014

Alain Devalle

University of Turin - Department of Business Administration

Riccardo Magarini

University of Turin - Department of Business Administration

Enrico Onali

University of Bristol

Date Written: April 5, 2014

Abstract

European listed companies are required to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance to IFRS since 1st January 2005. IFRS are supposed lead to better accounting quality and to a closer association between market-based and accounting-based performance, or value relevance. We examine whether value relevance has improved after the compulsory adoption of IFRS using a sample of 3,721 companies listed on five European stock exchanges: Frankfurt, Madrid, Paris, London and Milan. We find little evidence of an improvement in value relevance. However, earnings are found to influence share price to a greater extent than prior to IFRS adoption, while the influence of the book value of equity is found to have decreased.

Suggested Citation:

Devalle, Alain and Magarini, Riccardo and Onali, Enrico, Assessing the Value Relevance of Accounting Data after IFRS Introduction in Europe (April 5, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2420765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2420765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
S Akbar , A W Stark
Discussion of scale and the scale effect in market-based accounting research
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 72 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M J Ali , K Ahmed , D Henry
Harmonization of accounting measurement practices in South Asia
Advances in International Accounting , volume 19 , p. 25 - 58 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Ali , L S Hwang
Country-Specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A D&apos;arcy
Accounting classification and the international harmonisation debate -an empirical investigation, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 26 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,196
RANK
183,540
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies