Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legal Regime and Financial Reporting Quality

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2014

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Réal Labelle

HEC Montréal - Stephen A. Jarislowsky Chair in Governance

Stephane Rousseau

Université de Montréal - Faculty of Law

Date Written: April 9, 2014

Abstract

This article uses the Canadian environment, where French civil law in the province of Quebec coexists with common law in the rest of Canada (denoted as bijural), to test the thesis of the neutrality of the legal system with regard to financial reporting quality. This single-country design allows for a better control over other factors that influence financial reporting quality. The French civil law environment appears to encourage firms to publish accounting data of better quality due to the greater liability risk faced by auditors and corporate directors under that regime. These findings, based on ten years of data and seven attributes of financial reporting quality, are robust to different matching procedures and model specifications. This research contributes to the current debates in Canada as to whether financial market regulation under French civil law and common law jurisdictions should be unified under a single common law national securities regulator. At the broader level, the results support claims that a more in-depth understanding of the implementation of civil law and common law is needed rather than gross generalization about the two systems. These results especially call into question that common law regimes are unambiguously superior to civil law regimes in encouraging high quality financial reports.

Keywords: Investor protection; bijuralism; bijural; French civil law; common law; legal regime; legal origin; financial reporting quality.

JEL Classification: G38, K12, M4

Suggested Citation:

Filip, Andrei and Labelle, Réal and Rousseau, Stephane, Legal Regime and Financial Reporting Quality (April 9, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2422803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
Reena Aggarwal , Isil Erel , Rene M. Stulz , Rohan G. Williamson
Do U.S. Firms Have the Best Corporate Governance? A Cross-Country Examination of the Relation between Corporate Governance and Shareholder Wealth
Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2006-03-006, ECGI - Finance Working Paper No. 145/2007, Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2006-25 Pages: 41 Posted: 2 Jan 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence. Contemporary Accounting Research accepted Article Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ali , L-S Hwang
Country specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,370
RANK
284,192
1 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies