Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disentangling the Accruals Mispricing in Europe: Is It an Industry Effect?

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2014/5

35 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2014

Elisabetta Basilico

International Center of Corporate Governance

Tommi Johnsen

University of Denver - Daniels College of Business

Date Written: April 1, 2014

Abstract

This article examines the pervasiveness of the accruals mispricings in nine industries within a benchmark of seventeen European countries. We find that the accruals mispricing post the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards is present in an average of two to six of the nine industries analyzed, depending on the type of ratio used as a proxy of the accruals mispricing.

Keywords: Accruals Mispricing, Industry, International Financial Reporting Standards, Stock Selection, Europe

JEL Classification: G12, G15

Suggested Citation:

Basilico, Elisabetta and Johnsen, Thomajean, Disentangling the Accruals Mispricing in Europe: Is It an Industry Effect? (April 1, 2014). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2014/5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2423464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
R Ball , Ifrs
Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in Four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman , Lang , M
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Basilico , T Johnsen
The Introduction of IFRS: Evidence from the Mispricing of Accruals in Europe Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,275
RANK
623,124
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies