Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption Among Private Companies: Impact on Earnings Quality

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol.29, No.3, July 2014, pp. 278-305

Posted: 19 Apr 2014 Last revised: 20 Apr 2015

Mara Cameran

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Domenico Campa

International University of Monaco (IUM)

Angela Kate Pettinicchio

SDA Bocconi School of Management

Date Written: April 17, 2014

Abstract

EU gave the opportunity to each Member State to oblige/allow non-listed (i.e. private) companies to use IFRS. Considering a sample of Italian private companies which switched to IFRS in the time span from 2005 to 2008, we compare financial reporting quality between IFRS adopters and a matched sample of companies still using local (Italian) GAAP. This should be of interest for the EU Commission in evaluating the impact of the current financial reporting regulation and for EU national regulators, who are left with a certain degree of flexibility in endorsing parts of the European legislation. Overall, our results show that IFRS adoption did not improve reporting quality among private companies but, on the contrary, decreased it. As companies can exploit the level of flexibility embedded in IFRS to pursue their own reporting interests (Kvaal & Nobes, 2012; Leuz, 2010), separate analyses were conducted taking into consideration firms’ incentives. In particular, assuming that entities controlled by listed companies might have switched to IFRS mainly for complying with parent company requirements and/or simplifying the financial reporting process, we run the analyses separately for this subsample and other firms. Findings reveal signs of earnings quality deterioration for both groups although the impact seems slightly worse for subsidiaries of listed companies.

Keywords: IFRS, reporting quality, private companies, reporting incentives

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cameran, Mara and Campa, Domenico and Pettinicchio, Angela Kate, IFRS Adoption Among Private Companies: Impact on Earnings Quality (April 17, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol.29, No.3, July 2014, pp. 278-305, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2426206
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,451
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies