Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did China's Adoption of IFRS Attract More Foreign Institutional Investment?

Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 01.14

54 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2014 Last revised: 20 Apr 2014

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Xinzi Gao

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Lijun Xia

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Antai College of Economics and Management

Date Written: April 18, 2014

Abstract

We examine the impact of China’s IFRS adoption on foreign institutional investment. We find that foreign institutional investment does not increase after China’s IFRS adoption, and some evidence that it actually declines, particularly among firms with weaker incentives to credibly implement IFRS, or with greater ability to manipulate IFRS’s fair value provisions. We also find that the association between earnings and returns generally declines after IFRS adoption, consistent with reduced earnings quality. In addition, we find that foreign institutional investors’ returns decline after China’s IFRS adoption. Finally, the decline in foreign institutional investment is greater among investors from countries with weak institutions that have also adopted IFRS. Taken together, our evidence suggests that China’s weak institutional infrastructure impairs IFRS’s ability to improve financial reporting quality and increase foreign institutional investment.

Keywords: International financial reporting standards; institutional investment; China; transitional economies

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Gao, Xinzi and Li, Oliver Zhen and Xia, Lijun, Did China's Adoption of IFRS Attract More Foreign Institutional Investment? (April 18, 2014). Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. ACC 01.14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2426484 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2426484
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
A Ali , L S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brooking-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , volume 1 , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research
International Accounting Policy Forum , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
766
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,707
RANK
75,332
4 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies