Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence of Accounting Standards to International Financial Reporting Standards

Conference proceedings of the NICOM 2014 International Conference held at Institute of Management Studies, Nirma University from 9-11th January 2014

18 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2014 Last revised: 11 Sep 2015

Dhiraj Jain

National Institute of Securities Markets; National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM), Mumbai

K. Nair

Pacific Institute of Management; Pacific Institute of Management

Humnawaz Khan

Pacific University (India)

Date Written: November 22, 2013

Abstract

Purpose: Convergence of accounting standards to IFRS has become an important issue in the present era of globalization as every country has their own set of financial statements. So there is a need for common accounting standards for increasing cross-border investments and borrowings. The main purpose of the study was to understand the convergence of accounting standards, advantages of convergence to accounting standards, challenges in adopting IFRS and the responsibility of training of accountants. The study tries to understand the perception of qualified accountants towards the convergence and their inherent benefits, obstacles, responsibility for training of accountants and developing a common understanding about the convergence.

The study used the survey method to approach the respondents through a pre-tested and well structured questionnaire. It consisted of structured closed ended questions. 150 questionnaires were distributed among the various qualified accountants in the five major cities of Rajasthan (Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Kota and Ajmer) and only 130 responses were complete in all respects and hence were considered for the study. F-test was used to find out the significance of association between the demographics and the variables selected for the study.

Accounting practitioners feel that convergence would be beneficial for India, it will create financial information more comparable and reliable but cultural differences will make difficulties in convergence across the years of experience in job. In case of responsibility of training of accountants practitioners feel that they must train themselves for IFRS and even audit firms must arrange training for their employees and partners. Convergence of IFRS would help the businesses and services in increasing their cross- border investments and borrowings. It would also help in raising the foreign capital as all the concerned shareholders will be able to understand the financial statements of foreign companies and this would finally help in improving the quality and consistency with the local economic, social and legal conditions.

Keywords: Accounting standards, Convergence, Challenges, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Dhiraj and Nair, K. and Nair, K. and Khan, Humnawaz, Convergence of Accounting Standards to International Financial Reporting Standards (November 22, 2013). Conference proceedings of the NICOM 2014 International Conference held at Institute of Management Studies, Nirma University from 9-11th January 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2427662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Alexandra Fontesa , L L
Measuring convergence of National Accounting Standards with International Financial Reporting Standards
Accounting Forum , volume 29 , issue 4 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D R Anbalagan
Auditors Perception and Convergence of Accounting
indian journal of applied research , volume 3 , issue 5 , p. 91 - 94 Posted: 2013
Dr , D P Vasudeve
Convergence of accounting to IFRS in India: An empirical study
Gyan management , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 24 - 32 Posted: 2012
P Jain
IFRS Implementation in India: Opportunities and Challenges
World Journal of Social Sciences , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 136 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,099
RANK
429,779
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies