Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of Between-Country Measures of Legal Setting and Enforcement of Accounting Standards

63 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2014

John P. Preiato

The University of Western Australia

Philip R. Brown

UWA Business School, M250; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Date Written: April 24, 2014

Abstract

Academics and practitioners agree that the enforcement of accounting standards has an important role in promoting high quality financial reporting and favourable capital market outcomes. Researchers have used a range of proxies to capture differences between countries in the extent of enforcement, usually based on aspects of the legal system or laws in place, rather than the activities of auditors and independent enforcement bodies. We assess the merits of eight proxies that have been used to distinguish between countries’ institutional settings, including three recently-available indices (AUDIT, ENFORCE and their summation, AETOTAL) that focus specifically on auditing and accounting enforcement. We examine firms’ information environments, represented by the error in analysts’ consensus forecasts and the extent of disagreement among analysts, as indicated by forecast dispersion. For financial years ending from 2003 to 2009, we construct a sample of 357,034 firm-month observations on the errors and dispersion of analysts’ earnings forecasts for 10,769 firms domiciled in those 39 countries, where a variety of accounting standards have been followed and institutional settings have varied. While the results for forecast dispersion are equivocal, those for forecast accuracy are clear. AETOTAL has the strongest association with forecast accuracy, and AUDIT, ENFORCE and AETOTAL have additional explanatory power in models including more general legal enforcement (‘rule of law’) measures. We conclude accounting enforcement may be more important in securing favourable economic outcomes than has been realised, because researchers commonly have used noisier, more general legal proxies for enforcement that understate its marginal effects.

Keywords: legal system, enforcement of accounting standards; auditors; regulation; rule of law; International Financial Reporting Standards; IFRS; analysts’ forecasts; forecast error; forecast dispersion

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, K20

Suggested Citation:

Preiato, John P. and Brown, Philip R. and Tarca, Ann, A Comparison of Between-Country Measures of Legal Setting and Enforcement of Accounting Standards (April 24, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2428603 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2428603
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, International Accounting Standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Baker , A Mikol , R Quick
Regulation of the statutory auditor in the European Union: A comparative survey of the United Kingdom
European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 763 - 86 Posted: 2001
R Ball
Making accounting more international: why, how, and how far will it go
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 19 - 29 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,974
RANK
174,586
4 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies