Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Indian Accounting Standards: Is There a Need of IFRS?

Conference proceeding of the International conference ICRSB 2014 held at DOMS, IIT Roorkee on 8-9th March 2014

10 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2014 Last revised: 11 Sep 2015

K. Nair

Pacific Institute of Management; Pacific Institute of Management

Anupama Bhati

Pacific University (India)

Dhiraj Jain

National Institute of Securities Markets; National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM), Mumbai

Date Written: November 22, 2013

Abstract

The finance and accounting profession is emerging as a fast growing profession. In this globalized era, IFRS is gaining more and more attention. Not only are these gradually accepted as a single accounting language for the preparation of financial statements, they are also taking place of national Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) across the world. The main objective of the study was to study the attitude, subjective norms, perceived behavioral control and intention of accounting practitioners towards the adoption of IFRS. Stratified random sampling method was used in order to select the sample respondents. The responses collected were tabulated and cronbach alpha was calculated to test the reliability of the results. Descriptives like standard deviation and mean were calculated and one way ANNOVA was used to test the association/non association between the variables. The study concluded that the adoption of IFRS was good for Indian companies and the economy indicating that firms should adopt IFRS early and have necessary training to adopt IFRS as early as possible. No significant influence was found of the years of professional experience on the subjective norms established towards IFRS adoption, on the attitude towards IFRS adoption, whereas significant influence was found of type of firm affiliation on the attitude and of the position held in the organization on the attitude towards IFRS adoption. Further type of firm affiliation on perceived control, years of professional experience on the intention, firm affiliation on subjective norm established and type of firm affiliation on the intention had no significant influence towards IFRS adoption.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, Attitude, Intention, Perceived Behavioral Control Subjective Norm

Suggested Citation:

Nair, K. and Nair, K. and Bhati, Anupama and Jain, Dhiraj, Indian Accounting Standards: Is There a Need of IFRS? (November 22, 2013). Conference proceeding of the International conference ICRSB 2014 held at DOMS, IIT Roorkee on 8-9th March 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2430727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Alexandra Fontesa , L L
Measuring convergence of National Accounting Standards with International Financial Reporting Standards
Accounting Forum , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 415 - 436 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D R Anbalagan
Auditors Perception and Convergence of Accounting
indian journal of applied research , volume 3 , issue 5 , p. 91 - 94 Posted: 2013
Daske Holger , H L
Adopting a Label: Heterogeneity in the Economic Consequences Around IAS/IFRS Adoptions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 547 Posted: 2013
Dr , D P Vasudeve
Convergence of accounting to IFRS in India: An empirical study
Gyan management , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 24 - 32 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
862
RANK
383,022
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies