Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Litigation Costs and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from the Morrison Ruling

58 Pages Posted: 4 May 2014 Last revised: 6 Feb 2017

James P. Naughton

University of Virginia, Darden School of Business

Tjomme O. Rusticus

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Clare Wang

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Ira Yeung

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: February 2017

Abstract

We examine the causal effect of expected private litigation costs on voluntary disclosure using a natural experiment, the Supreme Court ruling in Morrison v. National Australia Bank. This ruling reduced expected private litigation costs for foreign cross-listed firms by eliminating the right of shareholders who purchased shares on non-US exchanges to seek compensation in US courts. We find consistent evidence that higher expected private litigation costs lead to greater voluntary disclosure using analyses that exploit the varying impact of Morrison based on both firm- and country-level attributes. Unlike a number of prior studies, we find that this positive relation does not depend on the direction of the news.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, litigation risk, cross-listing, Morrison ruling, bonding

JEL Classification: G15, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Naughton, James P. and Rusticus, Tjomme O. and Wang, Clare and Yeung, Ira, Private Litigation Costs and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from the Morrison Ruling (February 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2432371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2432371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
L A Aguilar
Statement by Commissioner: Defrauded investors deserve their day in court Posted: 2012-04-11
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Baginski , J Hassell , M Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in US and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Baruch , G A Karolyi , M L Lemmon
Multimarket trading and liquidity: theory and evidence
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 2169 - 2200 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
811
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,237
RANK
69,772
20 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies