Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on the Impact of Adopting English as an External Reporting Language on Foreign Investment, Information Asymmetry, and Analyst Following

Forthcoming, Journal of International Business Studies

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2014-01

52 Pages Posted: 9 May 2014

Thomas Jeanjean

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control; ESSEC Business School

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Michael H.R. Erkens

Nyenrode Business University; Erasmus School of Economics; Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: May 7, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates the economic consequences of non-English speaking companies adopting English as an external reporting language. We examine a sample of companies that initiate the voluntary issuance of an annual report in English in addition to the local language annual report. To control for self-selection, we use a difference-in-differences design with a propensity score matched control sample. We find that adoption of English as an external reporting language is associated with increased foreign ownership, decreased information asymmetry, and increased analyst following. We also find that these benefits are not conditional on the use of IFRS for financial reporting. Our findings hold if we run a number of robustness checks to control for correlated events (creation of an investor relations service, provision of conference calls, and/or changes in management). These results are consistent with the language used in the annual report acting as a barrier to investment for some investors and with annual reports issued in English reducing investors’ information processing costs.

Keywords: English, language, annual report, foreign ownership, information asymmetry, analyst following

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Jeanjean, Thomas and Jeanjean, Thomas and Stolowy, Hervé and Erkens, Michael H.R. and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, Evidence on the Impact of Adopting English as an External Reporting Language on Foreign Investment, Information Asymmetry, and Analyst Following (May 7, 2014). Forthcoming, Journal of International Business Studies, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2014-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2434032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
A Ali , T.-Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 49 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Arya , B Mittendorf
The interaction among disclosure, competition between firms, and analyst following
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 321 - 339 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H A Ashbaugh-Skaife , J Gassen , R Lafond
Does stock price synchronicity represent firm-specific information?
The international evidence: Available at SSRN Posted: 2006
Load more
1 Citations
Kristian D. Allee , Lisa S. Anderson , Michael Joseph Crawley
The Impact of Linguistic Distance and Financial Reporting Readability on Foreign Holdings of U.S. Stocks
56 Pages · Posted: 16 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 11 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 412
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,075
RANK
277,436
1 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies