Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Accounting Accruals in Chinese Firms

12 Pages Posted: 19 May 2014

Pepa Kraft

HEC Paris

Date Written: April 8, 2014

Abstract

Cheng and Li (2013) investigate whether income smoothing improves earnings informativeness for Chinese firms by replicating the research design of Tucker and Zarowin (2006). The results suggest that the relation still holds for a more recent sample of US firms but the relation is different for Chinese firms. These results are interesting and the authors argue that the poorer information environment in China is a possible culprit for the different results. This discussion raises the issue of what role accruals play in Chinese accounting. I replicate the study by Dechow (1994) in the Chinese market and find evidence consistent with the prediction that earnings exhibit less short-term noise than cash flows and greater associations with stock prices as performance benchmark. These findings are indicative of accruals playing a similar role for Chinese firms as for US firms, also but draw attention to some unresolved questions and areas for future research.

Suggested Citation:

Kraft, Pepa, The Role of Accounting Accruals in Chinese Firms (April 8, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2438450 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2438450
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
U Bhattacharya , H Daouk , M Welker
Accounting quality and debt contracting
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 641 - 678 Posted: 2003
S F Cahan , G Liu , J Sun
Investor protection, income smoothing, and earnigns informativeness
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 7 , issue 1 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C A Cheng , S Li
Does income smoothing improve earnings informativeness? -a comparison between the US and China markets Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,010
RANK
318,636
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies