Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Impact on Accounting Quality in Telecommunications Industry

IBSS Working Papers - Issue 4 May 2014

27 Pages Posted: 28 May 2014

Yusuf Nulla

University of Liverpool Online

Date Written: May 27, 2014

Abstract

Globally, the use of the IFRS in financial reporting is the requirement in many countries. However, the question of whether such a global transition towards a single set of accounting standards has been met by the presumed benefits of higher accounting quality and comparability yet remains unanswered. This paper primarily examines the effect of the mandatory IFRS adoption in Canada by the Canadian telecommunication companies. Since this research is an empirical study, this research has adopted quantitative research method. That is, by conducting survey, it has collected archival data from the eight large telecommunication companies of Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX/S&P) index. It was a comparative study between the Canadian GAAP financial reporting from 2008 to 2010 and IFRS financial reporting from 2011 to 2012. The research question of this research study is: Does IFRS adoption in the Canadian financial institutions improve financial reporting quality? This research finds that the adoption of the IFRS in telecommunication companies have resulted in lower persistency and predictability in earnings; increase in earnings influence to shareholder value; negative volatility in market price; better predictability of cash flow and financial forecasts; decrease in accruals and timeliness loss of recognition; increase in fair market valuation; significant increase in value relevance; increase in valuation usefulness of earnings to BVPS; and increase in operating capability and predictability.

Keywords: IFRS, GAAP, accounting quality, financial reporting, organizational performance, income smoothing, accruals, predictability, reporting aggressiveness, timeliness loss recognition

Suggested Citation:

Nulla, Yusuf, IFRS Impact on Accounting Quality in Telecommunications Industry (May 27, 2014). IBSS Working Papers - Issue 4 May 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2442329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2442329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C S Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standard, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,622
RANK
129,393
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies