Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt and Equity in Domestic and International Tax Law — A Comparative Policy Analysis

Reprinted from British Tax Review (BTR), 2014, Nr. 2, p. 146 - 217. © Thomson Reuters (Professional) UK Limited and Contributors and Schön, Wolfgang /et.al.

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance 2014-09

75 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2014 Last revised: 14 Jul 2014

Wolfgang Schoen

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance, Department of Business and Tax Law

Andreas Bakrozis

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Johannes Becker

University of Cologne

Tobias A. Beuchert

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Martin Boer

University of Groningen - Faculty of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Nadja Dwenger

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Andreas Gerten

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Maximilian Haag

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Sabine Heidenbauer

Vienna University, Institute for Austrian and International Taxlaw; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Carsten Hohmann

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Alexander Jehlin

Independent

Dr. Karin E.M. Kopp, LL.M.

Deutscher Juristinnenbund e.V.; Government of the Federal Republic of Germany - Bavarian Fiscal Authority, Tax Office Munich; Universität Hamburg - Interdisziplinäres Zentrum für Internationales Finanz und Steuerwesen (IIFS); Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Daniel Kornack

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Nadia Lagdali

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Christian Marquart

Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP

Lukas Mueller

University of St. Gallen; University of Fribourg - Faculty of Law; University of Zurich - Rechtswissenschaftliches Institut (School of Law)

Marta Castelon

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Christine Osterloh-Konrad

University of Tübingen - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Natalia Paxinou

Independent

Carlo Pohlhausen

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance; HgCapital

Philipp Redeker

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Erik Röder

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Astrid Roesener

CMS Hasche Sigle; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Date Written: June 2, 2014

Abstract

The demarcation between debt and equity is a long-standing core constituent of company and taxation law the world over. However, its sustainability for national and international taxation regimes is increasingly the subject of doubt. Domestic and international proposals for reform are directed towards either rendering the classification of financial instruments as equity or debt legally superfluous or robbing it of economic meaning. With the comprehensive comparative legal analysis in this article and the economic reasoning behind the distinction as background, a new structure for the relationship between debt and equity will be advanced. In doing so, the corporate and contract law background (including the flexibility) of each type of capital will be illuminated and the tax purpose of the relevant standards will be reviewed. It will become apparent that in income taxation, corporate taxation and international taxation law, a variety of legislative policy concerns influence the distinction between debt and equity and hence require differing demarcations. The resulting framework can also contribute to the current debate on “hybrid mismatches” with financial instruments.

Keywords: corporate law, business taxation, international tax law, debt equity distinction, comparative law, tax policy, comparative policy analysis

JEL Classification: F15, F23, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Schön, Wolfgang and Bakrozis, Andreas and Becker, Johannes and Beuchert, Tobias A. and Boer, Martin and Dwenger, Nadja and Gerten, Andreas and Haag, Maximilian and Heidenbauer, Sabine and Heidenbauer, Sabine and Hohmann, Carsten and Jehlin, Alexander and Kopp, Karin E. M. and Kornack, Daniel and Lagdali, Nadia and Marquart, Christian and Mueller, Lukas and Castelon, Marta and Osterloh-Konrad, Christine and Paxinou, Natalia and Pohlhausen, Carlo and Pohlhausen, Carlo and Redeker, Philipp and Röder, Erik and Roesener, Astrid and Roesener, Astrid, Debt and Equity in Domestic and International Tax Law — A Comparative Policy Analysis (June 2, 2014). Reprinted from British Tax Review (BTR), 2014, Nr. 2, p. 146 - 217. © Thomson Reuters (Professional) UK Limited and Contributors and Schön, Wolfgang /et.al., Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance 2014-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2444683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
221 References
In Brazil the non-voting preference shareholders must normally be guaranteed a substantial share of profits in any event , volume 17 Posted: 1976
Code de Commerce Art.L.232-12 para , volume 1
Ferran, above fn.30, 150 and following
Le Couret , Nabasque
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,087
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,460
RANK
46,520
221 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies