Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption, Reporting Incentives, and Financial Reporting Quality in Private Firms

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2014 Last revised: 22 Feb 2018

Moritz Bassemir

Goethe University Frankfurt

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: February 2017

Abstract

This study examines financial reporting quality (FRQ) effects around IFRS adoptions of German private firms across two important dimensions, earnings quality and disclosure practices. To capture differences in the motivations for IFRS adoptions, we identify four different types of adopting firms based on a comprehensive set of firm characteristics. We observe earnings quality improvements around IFRS adoptions primarily for one type of firms, which are young, fast growing and seeking access to public equity markets. Using a matched sample of private German GAAP and IFRS reporting firms, we find some evidence suggesting that IFRS also contribute to higher earnings quality. Recognizing that our earnings quality metrics are only incomplete measures of FRQ, we also compare the disclosure practices of IFRS and German GAAP firms. We find that all IFRS firm types disclose significantly more information in their financial reports and show a higher propensity to voluntarily publish their financial reports on the corporate website. Our findings indicate that failure to identify earnings quality changes around IFRS adoption cannot be automatically interpreted as IFRS adoption having no effect on the FRQ of (private) firms. Collectively, our results suggest that both incentives and accounting standards shape private firms’ FRQ.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Reporting Incentives, Earnings Quality, Private Firms

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Bassemir, Moritz and Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán, IFRS Adoption, Reporting Incentives, and Financial Reporting Quality in Private Firms (February 2017). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2446585 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2446585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
7 Citations
Paul Andre , Fani Kalogirou
Business Group Membership and IFRS Reporting: The Effect of Group Financing and Investing Incentives.
47 Pages · Posted: 11 Apr 2017 · Downloads: 156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Juan L. Gandía , David Huguet
Are Spanish GAAP for Private Companies Comparable to IFRS for SMEs?
International Journal of Business and Social Sciences, 9 (3), 44-58 (2018) · 26 Pages · Posted: 31 Jul 2018 · Downloads: 318
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Martin Glaum
Financial Reporting in Non-Listed Family Firms: Insights From Interviews With CFOs
Schmalenbach Business Review (sbr), Forthcoming · 49 Pages · Posted: 4 May 2020 · Downloads: 139
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Peter‐Jan Engelen , Michele Meoli , Andrea Signori , Silvio Vismara
The Effects of Stricter Regulation on the Going Public Decision of Small and Knowledge‐Intensive Firms
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 47, Issue 1-2, pp. 188-217, 2020 · 30 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2020 · Downloads: 59
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,906
RANK
125,719
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies