Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Legal Quality on Accounting Quality in the European Union: Has East Met West?

35 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2014

Frederick W. Lindahl

George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Hannu J. Schadewitz

Turku School of Economics at the University of Turku - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: March 15, 2014

Abstract

Among the global efforts to improve the operation of financial markets, one is better accounting standards (i.e., IFRS). Research has shown that besides high quality accounting standards there is also a need for functional institutions, regulations, incentives and enforcement to achieve financial reporting quality (Holthausen, 2009).

A factor often included in accounting research is the legal system, but the research has yielded little information about the law’s effect. This paper connects, theoretically and empirically, the operation of law with the quality of reporting in 25 EU countries.

The setting is Europe, which is a “natural experiment” for analyzing the effect of law on financial reporting. For more than 40 years, ten countries in eastern Europe that are now part of the EU were communist countries. The rest of the EU maintained legal systems based on capitalist principles of property rights. If remnants of communism remain that still affect the legal climate in the eastern EU, it is possible to test whether and how different legal conditions are reflected in managers’ reporting decisions.

The “natural experiment” is strengthened by the adoption of IFRS throughout the EU. This eliminates the possibility that financial reporting quality varies according to different national accounting rules. It does not, however, eliminate the possibility of earnings management. Different legal climates can reasonably be linked to different levels of truthfulness in reporting to investors. Results show empirically that legal climates are not uniform within the EU, and that the legal quality is associated with reporting quality.

Keywords: IFRS, legal systems, investor protection, European Union, communism

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lindahl, Frederick W. and Schadewitz, Hannu J., The Effect of Legal Quality on Accounting Quality in the European Union: Has East Met West? (March 15, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2447692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2447692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,003
RANK
249,957
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies