Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legislations and Other Factors Associated with Non-Financial Disclosure: A Cross-Country Study

37 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2014

Asit Bhattacharyya

University of Newcastle (Australia)

Date Written: June 9, 2014

Abstract

This paper investigates corporate social and environmental reporting (SER) practices within an Australian and Indian context. SER disclosure has the potential to increase organisational competitiveness and profitability and thereby share price. The study investigates the SER practices of Australian and Indian organisations across five industries. Using 35 GRI based social and environmental indicators; the study evaluates disclosure information presented in annual reports. Results indicate that with lower number of legislations, SER by Indian organisations is lower in quantity than Australian organisations. Regression analysis is used to empirically examine the other determinants of SER practices. The results indicate that total disclosure is significantly higher only for large organisations, particularly within the mining and chemical industries. The study also found a significant difference in the extent of total disclosure between Australia and India.

Keywords: Social disclosure; environmental disclosure, GRI, Australia, India, Emerging economy

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharyya, Asit, Legislations and Other Factors Associated with Non-Financial Disclosure: A Cross-Country Study (June 9, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2447658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2447658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
C Adams , W Y Hill , C Roberts
Corporate Social Reporting Practices in Western Europe: Legitimating Corporate Behaviour?
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1998
Crossref
C Adams , N Kuasirikun
Corporate social accounting disclosure in Thailand
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 629 - 660 Posted: 2004
C Adams , A Zutshi
Corporate Social Responsibility: Why Business Should Act Responsibly and be Accountable
Australian Accounting Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 31 - 39 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M J Ali , K Ahmed , D Henry
Disclosure compliance with national accounting standards by listed companies in South Asia
Accounting and Business Research , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,744
RANK
618,773
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies