Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Impairment Disclosures: A Test for IFRS Compliance in Malaysia

Pensee, Vol. 76, iss. 2, pp: 262-275

14 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2014

Khairil Faizal Khairi

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM), Malaysia

Nur Laili

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Date Written: February 5, 2014

Abstract

The application of FRS 136-Impairment of Assets (Amended by Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009) was mandatory for all companies listed in Bursa Malaysia from 1 January 2010. The highly prescriptive and technical provisions of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 136-Impairment of Assets (FRS 136, 2009) therefore represent a very substantial variation from past practice. This in turn gives rise to questions about how Malaysian companies and their auditors have fared during the process of transition to a complex reporting regime and in consequence to the quality and consistency of reports produced pursuant to that new regime. Hence, this study examines the degree of technical compliance with the disclosure requirements of FRS 136 (Amended by Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009) by a sample of 20 large Malaysian companies used as a proxy for audit quality. This research employed six analytical structures to distinguish audit quality among the Big 3 in an attempt to question the homogeneity of audit quality assumption. The evidence presented in this study suggests that there is no variation in audit quality among the Big 3 and contributes to the literature by providing at least preliminary evidence for the proposition that audit quality among the largest audit firms is homogenous, as has so often been assumed in previous studies. The findings will be of interest to investors, analysts, regulators and enforcers, not only in Malaysia but also in other jurisdictions undergoing transition to IFRS, in particular those whose reporting regimes portray similar features.

Keywords: Goodwill, FRS136, Impairment, Malaysia

Suggested Citation:

Khairi, Khairil Faizal and Laili, Nur, Goodwill Impairment Disclosures: A Test for IFRS Compliance in Malaysia (February 5, 2014). Pensee, Vol. 76, iss. 2, pp: 262-275, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2448096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,228
RANK
375,525
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies