Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Benefits of Structured Data across the Information Supply Chain: Initial Evidence on XBRL Adoption and Loan Contracting of Private Firms

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 35, No. 4, 2016

44 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2014 Last revised: 10 Nov 2016

Devrimi Kaya

University of Erlangen-Nuremberg-Friedrich Alexander Universität Erlangen Nürnberg

Paul Pronobis

Free University of Bolzano-Bozen

Date Written: April 29, 2016

Abstract

A growing body of literature documents how different parties benefit from structured data across the information supply chain. The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of voluntary adoption of the eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) on price and non-price terms of loan contracting. Using a sample of Belgian private firms, the analyses provide evidence that banks charge lower interest rate spreads to voluntary adopters as compared to non-adopters. The results also show that loan sizes are larger in comparison for voluntary adopters of XBRL. Further, the effect of XBRL adoption is stronger for opaque firms. The results are robust to using different estimation approaches as well as additional tests. The findings are in line with the view that XBRL data filings reduce information processing costs, and contribute to our understanding of the impact of structured data on loan contracting – an implication that may be of interest to regulators and other parties interested in the benefits of structured data across the information supply chain.

Keywords: XBRL, Loan Contracting, Cost of Debt, Interest Rate Spread, Information Technology, Information Supply Chain

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kaya, Devrimi and Pronobis, Paul, The Benefits of Structured Data across the Information Supply Chain: Initial Evidence on XBRL Adoption and Loan Contracting of Private Firms (April 29, 2016). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 35, No. 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2450858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2450858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,514
RANK
115,646
3 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Value of Verification in Debt Financing: Evidence from Private U.S. Firms

By Michael Minnis

Voluntary Audits and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Jeong-bon Kim, Dan A. Simunic, ...

Voluntary Audit and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Dan A. Simunic, Jeong-bon Kim, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies