Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Eliminating the Form 20-F Reconciliation on Shareholder Wealth: Evidence from U.S. Cross-Listed Firms

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Jun 2014

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: June 14, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines shareholder wealth effects in U.S. and home-country markets relating to the SEC’s decision to eliminate the Form 20-F reconciliation. During the period of examined events, we find positive cumulative abnormal returns for the treatment sample of U.S. cross-listed firms that prepare financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) but no such effects for our control sample comprising cross-listed non-IFRS, U.S. domestic, or home-country firms. We find the stock market impact for our treatment sample to be positively related to our proxy for cost savings and negatively related to the pre-adoption reconciliation magnitude from IFRS to U.S. GAAP. This suggests shareholders place some value on reconciliation information, but generally the costs of preparing and auditing reconciliations outweigh concern about information loss. Moreover, we find that information loss is less pronounced for firms having used IFRS for a longer period, suggesting the learning effect mitigates information loss.

Keywords: earnings reconciliation; U.S. cross-listing; disclosure regulation; IFRS; Form 20-F reconciliation

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Lucy Huajing and Khurana, Inder, The Impact of Eliminating the Form 20-F Reconciliation on Shareholder Wealth: Evidence from U.S. Cross-Listed Firms (June 14, 2014). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2450639
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,757
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies