Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing the Transparency Implications of Mandatory IFRS Adoption: The Spread/Maturity Relation of Credit Default Swaps

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2457725

46 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2014 Last revised: 30 Jul 2015

Gauri Bhat

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Dan Segal

Reichman University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2015

Abstract

This study tests whether IFRS adoption increased accounting transparency based on model-driven hypotheses. Duffie and Lando (2001) show that changes to accounting transparency affect the spread/maturity relation of CDS instruments in very specific ways. Consistent with their model, we find that CDS spreads are lower across maturities following the adoption of IFRS, and the slope and concavity of the CDS spread/maturity relation are higher. These changes did not occur to the spread/maturity relation of a control sample of CDS instruments. Predicted changes apply more intensely to firms with low pre-IFRS transparency. Overall, this study provides strong evidence that IFRS adoption increased accounting transparency.

Keywords: Credit Default Swaps, Credit Risk, Maturity, IFRS

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G13, G20

Suggested Citation:

Bhat, Gauri and Callen, Jeffrey L. and Segal, Dan, Testing the Transparency Implications of Mandatory IFRS Adoption: The Spread/Maturity Relation of Credit Default Swaps (July 2015). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2457725, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2457725 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2457725
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,587
RANK
260,475
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies