Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Incentives, Mandatory Standards and Firm Communication in the IFRS Adoption Setting

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 39, No. 2, 2014

Posted: 22 Jun 2014

Marvin Wee

Australian National University (ANU); Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Millicent Chang

The University of Western Australia; University of Wollongong

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 12, 2014

Abstract

We investigate the content, timing and relevance of firms’ narrative disclosure about the effects of IFRS adoption in annual statutory financial statements and firm announcements to the stock exchange for 150 large listed Australian firms in the three-year period surrounding adoption (which occurred from 1 January 2005). We observe communication about changes in financial reports, even when the change relates to accounting rather than economic events. We record more disclosure by firms experiencing an adverse change in earnings, consistent with them being sensitive to signals about future earnings. When economic performance is stronger, firms provide less discussion of the accounting effects of IFRS. We also find the discussion of IFRS impact in both disclosure channels is value-relevant for firms with relatively higher levels of disclosure, providing evidence of the usefulness of transition disclosures.

Keywords: AASB 1047, AASB 101, continuous disclosure regime, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), transition reconciliation, value-relevance

Suggested Citation:

Wee, Marvin and Wee, Marvin and Tarca, Ann and Chang, Millicent, Disclosure Incentives, Mandatory Standards and Firm Communication in the IFRS Adoption Setting (May 12, 2014). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 39, No. 2, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2457080
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,131
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies