Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Compliance and Nonfinancial Information in Annual Reports of Malaysian Firms

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XII, No. 4, October 2013, pp. 7-24

Posted: 8 Jul 2014

Daw Tin Hla

Universiti Malaysia Sarawak (UNIMAS)

Abu Hassan Bin Md. Isa

Universiti Malaysia Sarawak (UNIMAS)

Dr. Junaid Mohd. Hanif Shaikh

Independent

Date Written: June 25, 2014

Abstract

This study analyzes the level of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) compliance practice by the nonfinancial corporations from the different sectors, listed on the main market of Bursa Malaysia. It also analyzes the association between the level of IFRS compliance practice and nonfinancial information like early adoption of IFRS, good corporate governance practice, transparency and disclosure in their annual reports, etc. Research methodology includes content analysis to measure the level of IFRS compliance practice in annual reports of the firms, based on the measurement attributes of disclosure requirements of commonly used 14 IFRS. Multiple regression model estimates the instrumental nonfinancial variables that are accounted for the financial reporting with higher IFRS compliance practice by the firms in Malaysia. The findings highlight that financial reporting with the higher level of IFRS compliance in the annual reports is positively associated with nonfinancial factors like early adoption of IFRS, corporate governance, and transparency and disclosure practice. This study contributes to the evidence of higher IFRS compliance practice by the firms in Malaysia, and reveals the significant role of nonfinancial factors in achieving the mission of full convergence with IFRS in the internationalization of accounting in Malaysia.

Suggested Citation:

Hla, Daw Tin and Isa, Abu Hassan Bin Md. and Shaikh, Dr. Junaid Mohd. Hanif, IFRS Compliance and Nonfinancial Information in Annual Reports of Malaysian Firms (June 25, 2014). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XII, No. 4, October 2013, pp. 7-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2458874
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,171
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies