Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do the Rules Attract the Money? Implication of IFRS Adoption on Foreign Direct Investment

22 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2014

Uchenna Efobi

Covenant University

Matthias Nnadi

Cranfield University - School of Management

John Odebiyi

Covenant University

Ibukun Beecroft

Covenant University

Date Written: June 30, 2014

Abstract

The adoption of IFRS is expected to significantly affect the quality of global financial reporting and improve investment decisions. A major question that arises, therefore, is: does this stance hold when the time dimension, post IFRS adoption period (i.e. the number of years a country has adopted IFRS), is considered? Secondly, what role do institutions play in this relationship? A sample of 92 countries, comprising of both developed and developing countries, was selected for the period 2002-2010. The baseline model comprise of the macro-economic, structural covariates and measures of institutions, IFRS adoption and the interactions between institutions and IFRS adoption. The System Generalized Method of Moments estimation technique was used for the data estimations. The results show that IFRS is not able to attract much of FDI, and institutional development plays a substitutive role in this regard. This implies that as they pursue the adoption of IFRS, countries should drive at the development of their institutional capacity through policies that will support private investment, regulatory quality, and rule of law, property rights and protection and control of corruption.

Keywords: FDI, Financial Reporting, Developing countries, IFRS adoption, Institutions.

JEL Classification: M41, G14, F42

Suggested Citation:

Efobi, Uchenna and Nnadi, Matthias and Odebiyi, John and Beecroft, Ibukun, Do the Rules Attract the Money? Implication of IFRS Adoption on Foreign Direct Investment (June 30, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2460967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2460967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,316
RANK
140,530
2 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies