Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accrual Anomaly in the U.K. Stock Market: Implications of Growth and Accounting Distortions

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Vol. 32, pp. 256–277, 2014

52 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2014 Last revised: 18 Nov 2024

Leonidas C. Doukakis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: July 3, 2014

Abstract

On the basis of an accrual decomposition into two components capturing output growth and accounting distortions, this paper analyzes the effects of accounting accruals on firms’ future performance in the U.K. stock market. Findings reveal a strong negative association of accruals with future profitability and stock returns. The effect of accruals on future earnings performance is driven only by the component attributable to accounting distortions, and the accrual effect on stock price performance is driven by both the component attributable to accounting distortions and the component attributable to growth. These two components complement each other in driving the accrual effect on stock returns.

Keywords: accruals, growth, accounting distortions, profitability, stock returns

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Doukakis, Leonidas C. and Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., The Accrual Anomaly in the U.K. Stock Market: Implications of Growth and Accounting Distortions (July 3, 2014). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Vol. 32, pp. 256–277, 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2461988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
974
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies