Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Transfer Pricing Risk Affect Premia in Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions?

59 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2014

Devan Mescall

University of Saskatchewan

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 1, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates how transfer pricing risk affects the premia in cross-border mergers and acquisitions. Differences in the rigor of transfer pricing enforcement and the severity and clarity of rules across countries create risk of material costs for multinationals as they expand globally. We use 448 country-level transfer pricing risk assessments by global transfer pricing partners and managers from two Big Four accounting firms in 33 countries to develop a metric of country-year transfer pricing risks. The resulting measure of transfer pricing risk is used to analyze the premia of 4,308 cross-border mergers and acquisitions from 1993-2012. Our results suggest that acquirers offer lower premia on their bid when there is increased transfer pricing risk associated with the future operations of the target, consistent with the views of experts in the field. This relation is stronger in target industries with high levels of intellectual property, because targets face greater transfer pricing uncertainty when implementing an arm’s length price. Our results provide the first archival evidence that acquirers consider the risk of uncertain tax costs on future operations when estimating the value of a target to the firm.

Keywords: Transfer pricing, tax, tax risk, multinational, taxation, acquisition, premia, premium, M&A, merger

JEL Classification: M04, H02

Suggested Citation:

Mescall, Devan and Klassen, Kenneth, How Does Transfer Pricing Risk Affect Premia in Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions? (July 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2461278 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2461278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
J Graham , M Hanlon , T Shevlin
Real effects of accounting rules: Evidence from multinational firms' investment location and profit repatriation decisions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , p. 137 - 185 Posted: 2011
Crossref
H Grubert , J Mutti
Taxes, tariffs and transfer pricing in multinational corporate decision making
The Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 73 , p. 285 - 294 Posted: 1991
Crossref
D Hackbarth , E Morellec
Stock returns in mergers and acquisitions
The Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 1213 - 1252 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Harris
The impact of U.S. tax law revision on multinational corporations' capital location and income-shifting decisions
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
706
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,994
RANK
83,693
6 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies