Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on International Cross-Listings

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Jul 2014 Last revised: 5 Nov 2014

Long Chen

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Jeff Ng

Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Date Written: October 24, 2014

Abstract

Using a comprehensive dataset of international cross-listings spanning 34 (50) home (target) countries, we examine whether mandatory IFRS adoption facilitates firms’ cross-listing activities. Our results using difference-in-differences analyses show that firms that mandatorily adopt IFRS exhibit significantly higher cross-listing propensity and intensity following IFRS adoption. We also find that firms from mandatory IFRS adoption countries are more likely to cross-list their securities in countries also mandating IFRS and countries with larger and more liquid capital markets. We further find that IFRS adoption has a greater effect on mandatory IFRS adopters from countries with larger accounting differences from IFRS, lower disclosure requirements and less access to external capital prior to IFRS adoption. Our findings are consistent with the notion that mandatory IFRS adoption facilitates firms’ cross-listing activities and highlight the importance of considering the change in cross-listings when examining the capital market consequences of mandatory IFRS adoption.

Keywords: Mandatory IFRS Adoption; Cross-listing; GAAP Difference

JEL Classification: F31, G15, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Long and Ng, Jeff and Tsang, Albert, The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on International Cross-Listings (October 24, 2014). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2465119 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2465119
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,701
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies