Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competition Among Exchanges Through Simplified Disclosure Requirements: Evidence from the American and Global Depositary Receipts

Accounting and Business Research, 44 (1), 2014

63 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2014

No Name

Minnesota State University

Matt Pinnuck

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 17, 2014

Abstract

In this study we address the ongoing debate as to whether the competition among the world’s major exchanges through simplified disclosure requirements is justified. Companies from across the globe have a choice of cross-listing shares as either American or Global Depositary Receipts (ADRs and GDRs, respectively). The former are primarily listed on the US exchanges – NYSE, NASDAQ and AMEX – whereas the latter are issued into non-US markets such as the London Stock Exchange (LSE). The GDRs listed on the LSE are subject to simplified disclosure requirements compared to their exchange-listed ADR peers that have to meet more stringent compliance standards. Proponents of the ‘light touch’ approach argue that firms cross-listing as GDRs are not subject to the higher reporting costs faced by ADRs yet still face similar valuation benefits. Those who challenge this approach argue that simplified disclosure requirements set by the LSE will ultimately be recognised by the market as ineffective, diverting traders from investing in GDRs. This study provides evidence that supports the LSE’s ‘light touch’ approach and shows that the benefits of information risk reduction for ADRs and GDRs are comparable. The explanation for this finding is that the two avenues through which information asymmetry is expected to be resolved after cross-listing – disclosure and analysts – are substitutive and make equally important contribution to information risk reduction, eventually leading to similar cost of capital decline for ADRs and GDRs.

Keywords: cross-listing, ADR, GDR, disclosure, cost of capital, information risk

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Name, No and Pinnuck, Matthew, Competition Among Exchanges Through Simplified Disclosure Requirements: Evidence from the American and Global Depositary Receipts (January 17, 2014). Accounting and Business Research, 44 (1), 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Abdallah , A-N
Do regulations matter? The effects of cross-listing on analysts' coverage and forecast errors
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 285 - 307 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standard choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
G Alexander , C Eun , S Janakiraman
Asset pricing and dual listing on foreign capital markets: a note
Journal of Finance , volume 42 , p. 151 - 158 Posted: 1987
Crossref
H K Baker , G E Powell , D G Weaver
Does NYSE listing affect firm visibility? Financial Management , volume 28 , p. 46 - 54 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,541
RANK
320,086
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies