Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Segment Disclosure Quantity and Quality under IFRS 8: Determinants and the Effect on Financial Analysts' Earnings Forecast Errors (formerly titled The Interplay between Segment Disclosure Quantity and Quality)

International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2014 Last revised: 2 Aug 2023

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Rucsandra Moldovan

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Date Written: June 14, 2016

Abstract

Focusing on segment disclosures under the management approach, we investigate managers’ choices with respect to both segment reporting quantity and quality and the usefulness of these two characteristics for financial analysts. We measure quantity as the number of segment-level line items and quality as the cross-segment variation in profitability — arguing that more managerial discretion can be exercised over quality than over quantity. We find that managers solve proprietary concerns either by deviating from the suggested line-item disclosure in the standard, or, if following standard guidance, by decreasing segment reporting quality. Moreover, financial analysts do not always understand the quality of segment disclosures, suggesting that a business-model type of standard creates difficulties even for sophisticated users. Our results inform standard setters as they start working on a disclosure framework and as they consider the business model approach to financial reporting.

Keywords: segment reporting; disclosure quality; disclosure quantity; financial reporting choices; IFRS 8

Suggested Citation:

Andre, Paul and Filip, Andrei and Moldovan, Rucsandra, Segment Disclosure Quantity and Quality under IFRS 8: Determinants and the Effect on Financial Analysts' Earnings Forecast Errors (formerly titled The Interplay between Segment Disclosure Quantity and Quality) (June 14, 2016). International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2470466 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2470466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
A Ali , S Klasa , P E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
P André , G Broye , C Pong , A Schatt
Are joint audits associated with higher fees?
European Accounting Review Posted: 2015
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
R Balakrishnan , T S Harris , P K Sen
The predictive ability of geographic segment disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
589
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,178
RANK
105,672
6 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies