Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Risk Aversion and Firm Value

Applied Financial Economics, Vol. 14, No. 8, 2014

23 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2014 Last revised: 4 Aug 2014

Ron C. Antonczyk

Aachen University - Department of Finance

Astrid Juliane Salzmann

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management; RWTH Aachen University - Department of Finance

Date Written: March 10, 2014

Abstract

This study extends the current state of research on corporate governance and firm value determinants by introducing culture as a proxy for risk aversion. We focus on individuals’ risk aversion and connect it to Hofstede’s cultural dimensions of uncertainty avoidance. In a cross-country empirical analysis with 47 countries, we find that uncertainty avoidance is negatively associated with valuation of firms. Our findings suggest that cross-country variation in risk aversion as well as in corporate governance impact firm valuation. The results are robust to controlling for other determinants of firm value and using different datasets.

Keywords: company valuation, risk aversion, uncertainty avoidance, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G02, G32, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Antonczyk, Ron C. and Salzmann, Astrid Juliane, Corporate Governance, Risk Aversion and Firm Value (March 10, 2014). Applied Financial Economics, Vol. 14, No. 8, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2474586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , p. 377 - 97 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R M Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between U.S. and foreign firms: measurement, causes, and consequences, The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3131 - 69 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Ammann , D Oesch , M M Schmid
Corporate governance and firm value: international evidence
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 18 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2011
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen
The costs of entrenched boards
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 409 - 442 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,045
RANK
334,743
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies