Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Cash: Taxes, Internal Capital Markets, and Agency Problems

The Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2014 Last revised: 28 Sep 2016

Jarrad Harford

University of Washington; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Cong Wang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Kuo Zhang

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Antai College of Economics and Management

Date Written: September 27, 2016

Abstract

The greater is the fraction of a firm’s cash held overseas, the lower shareholders value that cash. This goes beyond a pure tax effect — the repatriation tax friction disrupts the firm’s internal capital market, distorting its investment policy. Firms underinvest domestically and overinvest abroad. Our findings are more pronounced when firms are subject to higher repatriation tax rates, higher costs of borrowing, and more agency problems. Overall, our evidence suggests that a combination of taxes, financing frictions, and agency problems leads to a valuation discount for foreign cash and documents real effects of how foreign earnings are taxed.

Keywords: Cash trapped overseas, Value of foreign cash, Repatriation cost, Domestic investment-cash flow sensitivity

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Harford, Jarrad and Wang, Cong and Zhang, Kuo, Foreign Cash: Taxes, Internal Capital Markets, and Agency Problems (September 27, 2016). The Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2475562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2475562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,067
ABSTRACT VIEWS
30,497
RANK
47,749
21 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies