Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Geographic Implication of IFRS Adoption

29 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2014

Uchenna Efobi

Covenant University

Stephen Oluwatobi

Covenant University

Date Written: August 6, 2014

Abstract

This paper focuses on the linkage between IFRS adoption and the occurrences of global land deals. Data was gathered for 83 countries and the system GMM technique was applied in the estimations. Among the results from the study includes that IFRS adoption has a positive and significant explanations for the occurrences of global land deals. This result is robust and some policy implications stems from the result.

Keywords: FDI; Financial Reporting; IFRS; Land Deal

Suggested Citation:

Efobi, Uchenna and Oluwatobi, Stephen, The Geographic Implication of IFRS Adoption (August 6, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2476965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2476965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
D Acemoglu , Robinson , J
Why does Foreign Direct Investment Go Where It Goes? New Evidence from African Countries
Annals of Economics and Finance , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 462 Posted: 2012
E Arbatli
Economic policies and FDI inflows to emerging market economies, IMF Working Paper WP/11/192 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Arezki , K Deininger , H Selod
What drives the global land rush? World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Posted: 2011
E Asiedu
Foreign Direct Investment in Africa: The role of natural resources, market Size, government policy, institutions and political stability
World Economy , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 72 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,977
RANK
407,466
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Built Environment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies