Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Complexity and Compliance Costs of U.S. Multinational Corporations

Advances in International Accounting, Volume 10, pp. 207-237, 1997

31 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2001 Last revised: 22 May 2015

Dennis R. Lassila

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Abstract

Complex tax laws and the costs of complying with those laws are a major concern to U.S. multinational corporations. High costs of complying with complex tax rules and the nature of these rules are widely viewed as an impediment to the ability of U.S. multinational corporations to effectively compete in the international business arena and place them at a competitive disadvantage relative to multinational corporations chartered in other countries. This study examines tax compliance costs of U.S. multinational corporations over the years 1986 through 1988, the years immediately preceding and following passage of the Tax Reform Act of 1986. Research objective: determine the extent to which tax compliance costs increased over that period, the provisions of the act that most profoundly contributed to those increased costs, and other factors contributing to the tax complexity faced by U.S. multinational corporations.

Keywords: International tax issues; tax complexity; multinational corporations; tax compliance costs

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Lassila, Dennis R. and Smith, Murphy, Tax Complexity and Compliance Costs of U.S. Multinational Corporations. Advances in International Accounting, Volume 10, pp. 207-237, 1997, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=247726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,375
RANK
38,729
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies