Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National Culture and Internal Control Material Weaknesses Around the World

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 31(1), 2016

41 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2014 Last revised: 17 Feb 2017

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Chen Ma

Northwest University

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: August 14, 2014

Abstract

The scandals surrounding questionable accounting practices and corporate wrongdoing during 2000-2008 have often been attributed to the lack of effective internal controls. We examine the relations between national culture and the incidence and the number of reported internal control material weaknesses (ICMW). We focus on three dimensions of national culture, individualism, uncertainty avoidance, and power distance (as identified by Hofstede (2001)), which we hypothesize are related to ICMW. Consistent with our hypotheses, cross-country analysis indicates that individualism and power distance are positively related, and uncertainty avoidance is negatively related, to the existence of ICMW. We also find a significant positive relation between individualism and the number of ICMW. These results are robust to variety of sensitivity tests. Additionally, we document that all three dimensions of national culture influence the propensity to remediate previously identified ICMW.

Keywords: national culture, individualism, uncertainty avoidance, power distance, internal control material weakness

Suggested Citation:

Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lobo, Gerald J. and Ma, Chen and Zhou, Jian, National Culture and Internal Control Material Weaknesses Around the World (August 14, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 31(1), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2481418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 189 - 209 Posted: 1968
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney
The discovery and consequences of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Beugelsdijk , B Frijns
A cultural explanation of the foreign bias in international asset allocation
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 34 , p. 2121 - 2131 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
428
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,487
RANK
155,999
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies