Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Forecast Revisions and Their Long-Run Effects on Analyst Forecasts

22 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2014

Yunling Song

Zhejiang University

Date Written: August 19, 2014

Abstract

Management forecasts in Chinese share market are mostly mandatory, accompanied by many revisions to original forecasts. This paper describes the phenomenon of management forecast revisions and examines their long-run effects on analyst forecasts. We found that the revisions are almost evenly distributed among good news and bad news, but the revisions with bad news occur significantly later than those with good news. Meanwhile, the precision of revisions is significantly higher than that of original forecasts. The revisions affect management’s reputation of credible disclosure in that analysts update less to subsequent management forecasts with revisions in prior years. Further analysis shows that analysts’ consideration to revisions in prior years is sensible.

Keywords: Management forecast; Revisions; Analyst forecast; Market reaction

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Song, Yunling, Management Forecast Revisions and Their Long-Run Effects on Analyst Forecasts (August 19, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2483112 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2483112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
B Ajinkya , M Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
Crossref
B B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Instituional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S P Baginski , J M Hassell
The market interpretation of management earnings forecasts as a predictor of subsequent financial analyst forecast revision
The Accounting Review , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 190 Posted: 1990
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M M Wieland
An examination of the effects of management earnings forecast form and explanations on financial analyst forecast revisions
Advances in Accounting , volume 27 , p. 17 - 25 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,349
RANK
663,174
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies