Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS 8 on Analysts’ Information Environment: EU Evidence

British Accounting and Finance Association (BAFA) Scottish Area Group Conference, September 2014

Posted: 25 Aug 2014 Last revised: 11 Nov 2014

Ahmed Aboud

University of Aberdeen

Clare Roberts

University of Aberdeen

Date Written: July 23, 2014

Abstract

While the IASB had reduced the differences between SFAS & IFRS, in that IFRS 8 (Segment reporting) is a copy of the US SFAS 131, the quality of segment disclosure after IFRS 8 is under question. The European Parliament endorsed IFRS 8 after a great deal of scrutiny and much debate. Although the endorsement indicated approval of IFRS 8 by the European Union countries, the EU Parliament expressed reservations and regrets about the standard. It has been reported that IFRS 8 achieved the expected objectives, although financial statement users disputing the principle of the core standard. Therefore this paper responds to the call of IASB (2013) and examines the impact of IFRS8 adoption on analysts’ information environment using a sample from EU countries for four successive years. The empirical evidence indicates that segment disclosure quality measured by the disaggregation of geographical information is positively associated with the accuracy of analysts forecast and also positively associated with the dispersion. It also supports the benefits of IFRS8 to the properties analyst earnings forecasts. We document increased forecast accuracy and agreement after the switch to IFRS8.Moreover, we find that the adoption of IFRS8 is associated with an increase in the information that has additional value to analyst forecasts while it decreases the irrelevant information.

Keywords: IFRS 8, Segmental Information, EU, Analysts' forecasts

Suggested Citation:

Aboud, Ahmed and Roberts, Clare, The Impact of IFRS 8 on Analysts’ Information Environment: EU Evidence (July 23, 2014). British Accounting and Finance Association (BAFA) Scottish Area Group Conference, September 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2485884
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,012
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies