Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Development of Corporate Governance Codes in the GCC: An Overview

Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society, Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 315-338.

Posted: 30 Aug 2014 Last revised: 5 Jun 2015

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Purpose: This paper discusses and compares the corporate governance codes in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries.

Design/methodology/approach: The development of corporate governance codes in the GCC is considered using an analytical approach.

Findings: Efforts and initiatives are underway in the GCC towards improving the corporate governance environment and coping with international developments. Although most GCC codes are comprehensive compared to those of other Middle East North Africa (MENA) countries, and are similar to international codes, as with almost all countries in the region there is room for development. Updated codes that address the unique nature of these countries could enhance corporate governance.

Research implications: This comparison between GCC corporate governance codes provides opportunities to empirically compare the corporate governance status in these countries through indices or checklists based on the current comparison.

Practical implications: The research facilitates future evaluations of corporate governance in Gulf countries. In other words, different stakeholders, including investors and analysts, can utilise this paper during decision making. Moreover, comparing GCC codes to others in the MENA region would help to assess the GCC’s position in the region regarding these codes, and also alert firms to corporate governance reforms occurring in the region.

Originality/value: The paper analyses the corporate governance codes issued in the GCC, which represents a group of countries with similar characteristics that are thus studied separately from other MENA countries, and compares the corporate governance codes issued for non-financial listed companies.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Gulf, GCC, MENA, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE

JEL Classification: G34, K20, M41, M49, M48, O16

Suggested Citation:

Shehata, Nermeen F., Development of Corporate Governance Codes in the GCC: An Overview (2015). Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society, Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 315-338., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2489071
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,518
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies