Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Media Competition on Analyst Forecast Properties: Cross-Country Evidence

61 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2014 Last revised: 18 Aug 2019

Ying Cao

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Sami Keskek

Florida State University

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Date Written: August 1, 2014

Abstract

We examine the effect of media competition on analyst forecast properties in an international setting using 113,436 firm-year observations from 32 countries spanning 2000 through 2012. We find that firms in countries with stronger media competition enjoy more accurate, less optimistically biased, and less dispersed analyst forecasts. The effects of media competition on the properties of analyst forecasts are stronger for firms with lower institutional ownership, for firms followed by fewer analysts or by analysts from smaller brokerage houses, and for firms with weaker financial performance. This suggests that media competition plays a more pronounced role in shaping the information environment when information from non-media channels is likely to be limited or of lower quality. Finally, we find that analysts in countries with stronger media competition tend to follow more firms, suggesting that stronger media competition reduces analysts’ information acquisition costs, which in turn, improves the properties of their forecasts.

Keywords: media competition, international analyst forecasts, analyst forecast accuracy, analyst forecast optimism, analyst forecast dispersion, information environment

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Ying and Keskek, Sami and Myers, Linda A. and Tsang, Albert, The Effect of Media Competition on Analyst Forecast Properties: Cross-Country Evidence (August 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2492716 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2492716
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
L Abbott
Quality and Competition: An Essay in Economic Theory Posted: 1955
D V Agarwal , Hess
Common factors in analysts' earnings revisions: The role of changing economic conditions. Working paper Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,646
RANK
185,789
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies