Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Eternal Sunshine: Are U.S. Analysts More Optimistic than Foreign Analysts?

30 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2014 Last revised: 10 Dec 2014

Joshua Livnat

New York University; Prudential Financial - Quantitative Management Associates

Li Zhang

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting

Date Written: August 29, 2014

Abstract

A vast literature has documented an optimistic bias of U.S. analysts. This study compares the optimistic bias of U.S. analysts to that of foreign analysts. Using the implied rate of return in target prices, i.e., the ratio of the target price to the stock price one day before the target price announcement, we show that U.S. analysts are significantly more optimistic than their foreign peers, even after controlling for the same set of firms and the same economic conditions. Furthermore, we find U.S. analysts to be more optimistic for foreign-listed stocks, and not only for U.S.-listed stocks. Similar results are obtained for stock recommendations. In subsequent analysis, we find that investors are potentially aware of this bias, reacting more strongly to earnings forecast revisions of foreign analysts than to those of U.S. analysts.

Keywords: U.S. analysts, Foreign analysts, Optimistic bias

JEL Classification: M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Livnat, Joshua and Zhang, Li, Eternal Sunshine: Are U.S. Analysts More Optimistic than Foreign Analysts? (August 29, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2493805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2493805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Jean-Francois Bacmann , Guido Bolliger
Who are the Best? Local Versus Foreign Analysts on Latin American Stock Markets
EFMA 2002 London Meetings Pages: 31 Posted: 14 Dec 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K H Bae , R M Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Beyer
Financial analysts' forecast revisions and managers' reporting behavior
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 334 - 348 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M T Bradshaw , S A Richardson , R G Sloan
Do analysts and auditors use information in accruals?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 74 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,473
RANK
339,352
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies