Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
10 Years Impairment-Only Approach – Stakeholders’ Perceptions and Researchers’ Findings

69 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2014

Tobias Genannt Wersborg

Handelshochschule Leipzig (HHL)

Torben Teuteberg

Handelshochschule Leipzig (HHL)

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: September 10, 2014

Abstract

The IASB emphasizes the demand for academic research in the standard setting process. Ewert and Wagenhofer (2012) specifically refer to the post-implementation review (PIR) process and point out that “academics can, and should, play a significant role in a PIR.” We follow these requests and aim to contribute to the current PIR on IFRS 3 Business Combinations. In particular, we evaluate the impact of the introduction of the impairment-only approach for goodwill accounting in 2004 from two perspectives. Firstly, we analyze the comment letters submitted by stakeholders in response to the Request for Information (RfI) during the PIR. Secondly, we systematically review related academic literature. The analysis of comment letters sheds light on the advantages and disadvantages of the goodwill impairment test perceived by interested stakeholders. By reflecting on these perceptions with respect to academic research, we identify differences between the two perspectives as well as research opportunities. Our findings show that stakeholders’ views about the usefulness of the information provided by the impairment test are mixed, while they share widespread concerns about the cost-benefit relation and the extent of discretion involved in the tests. Academic research tends to support the assumption that the impairment-only approach increases the usefulness of financial reporting. However, the concerns expressed about subjectivity and managerial discretion are confirmed by a number of empirical studies. In this dilemma, we advise the IASB not to withdraw the current concept immediately, but rather recommend some short-term measures to address areas of improvement identified in the PIR. In the long-term, we need a larger project – reasonably in cooperation with the FASB – in which the subsequent treatment of goodwill is holistically reviewed.

Keywords: Post-Implementation Review, Business Combinations, Goodwill, Impairment, IFRS 3, IAS 36

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Genannt Wersborg, Tobias and Teuteberg, Torben and Zülch, Henning, 10 Years Impairment-Only Approach – Stakeholders’ Perceptions and Researchers’ Findings (September 10, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2494524 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2494524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting discretion in goodwill impairments: UK evidence
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value-relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: Another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A Beatty , J Weber
Accounting Discretion in fair value estimates: An examination of SFAS 142 goodwill impairments
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 288 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
702
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,792
RANK
84,371
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies