Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility: Country-Level Predispositions and the Consequences of Choosing a Level of Disclosure

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

2 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2014 Last revised: 9 Apr 2015

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: April 1, 2015

Abstract

We study the different levels of corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosures of the largest European firms. We find that firms are more predisposed to disclose more CSR information in countries with: better investor protection, higher levels of democracy, more effective government services, higher quality regulations, more press freedom, and a lower commitment to environmental policies. Our analysis of the association of different levels of CSR disclosure with share prices indicates that a high level of CSR disclosure is associated with higher share prices, whereas a low level of CSR disclosure in sensitive industries is associated with lower share prices (compared to no disclosure). These results are also present when we analyse changes in CSR disclosure, and are robust to the inclusion of an accounting quality measure in our model. The overall effect of the association of higher levels of CSR disclosure with higher share prices is stronger in countries with more democracy, more government effectiveness, better regulatory quality, and more press freedom. Therefore, market participants find CSR disclosures more informative in countries where investors are in a better position to voice their concerns and where there is better regulation and more effective government implementation of regulations.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, global reporting initiative, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

de Villiers, Charl and Marques, Ana Cristina, Corporate Social Responsibility: Country-Level Predispositions and the Consequences of Choosing a Level of Disclosure (April 1, 2015). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2495763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2495763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
24 Citations
Zuraida Zuraida , Muhammad Nurul Houqe , Tony van Zijl
Value Relevance of Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosure
Handbook of Finance and Sustainability, 2016 · 59 Pages · Posted: 10 Jan 2014 · Last revised: 19 Dec 2017 · Downloads: 1,092
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zuraida Zuraida , Muhammad Nurul Houqe , Tony van Zijl
Value Relevance of Environmental, Social, and Governance Disclosure
Handbook of Finance and Sustainability, 2016 · 59 Pages · Posted: 27 Jan 2016 · Last revised: 19 Dec 2017 · Downloads: 419
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Katrin Hummel , Christian Schlick
The Relationship between Sustainability Performance and Sustainability Disclosure – Reconciling Voluntary Disclosure Theory and Legitimacy Theory
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 35, pp. 455-476 · 41 Pages · Posted: 17 Apr 2015 · Last revised: 2 Dec 2016 · Downloads: 2,060
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Katrin Hummel , Stephanie Mittelbach-Hoermanseder , Charles H. Cho , Dirk Matten
Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Topic-Based Approach
45 Pages · Posted: 26 Dec 2017 · Last revised: 19 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 1,166
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,461
RANK
197,037
24 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies