Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Intangible Assets on the Company's Market Value: A Comparative Analysis in the Listed Companies on Latin America and USA

17 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2014

Walther Castro

Fundação Escola de Comércio Álvares Penteado (FECAP); Fundação Instituto de Pesquisas Contábeis Atuáriais e Financeiras (FIPECAFI) - Faculdade FIPECAFI; University of São Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Date Written: September 14, 2014

Abstract

Based on the assumption that the market price of a stock immediately incorporates all relevant information on the assets, which are a reasonable measure of the market value of a company, the impact on financial statements caused by restrictions to record intangible assets are of significant interest. This article aims to study the relationship between the corporate market value and intangible assets not recorded in order to verify the existence of a negative relationship, which would explain part of the differences between the book value and market value of companies, occasioned by the restrictions of accounting standards for records intangible assets, whose record is basically limited to situations of business combinations. For preparation of a multiple regression model to study this negative relationship between intangible assets recorded and the market value of companies, we selected an Intangibility Degree as the dependent variable, which represents how many times the market value is higher than book value, and IROAI (Return on Intangible Assets Ratio), a proxy developed which aims to capture the effect of the presence of intangible assets and the abnormal return of the total assets of the companies, since they are understated due to the absence of registration of internally generated intangible assets. Financial variables were also used as explanatory variables in order to reinforce the equation and isolate the effect of market expectations on intangible assets. This study confirmed the existence of a negative relationship between these variables in Brazilian, Mexican and Argentinean markets and allowed the development of a model indicative of potential intangible assets not recorded in these markets, which explains part of the difference between market and accounting values. The proxy IROAI was not statistically significant in United States of America's, Chile's, Peru's and Colombia’s markets.

Keywords: Intangible assets, degree of intangibility, market-to-book ratio, book and market value

Suggested Citation:

Bottaro de Castro, Walther, The Impact of Intangible Assets on the Company's Market Value: A Comparative Analysis in the Listed Companies on Latin America and USA (September 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2496118 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2496118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S B Almeida
Valor justo (fair value) e regulamentação contábil: valor justo (fair value) na regulamentação contábil brasileira, norte-americana e internacional Posted: 2007
Dissertação , V C Belém , M M Marques
A influência dos ativos intangíveis na rentabilidade do patrimônio líquido das empresas brasileiras
Congresso USP de Controladoria e Contabilidade Posted: 2007
Pronunciamentos Comite De , Contábeis , Cpc
Pronunciamento técnico 46. Mensuração do valor justo. Brasília, 07 de dezembro de Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
565
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,868
RANK
111,488
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies