Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Logics in Global Accounting Standard Setting

49 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2014

Masatsugu Sanada

Kyoto Tachibana University

Date Written: September 14, 2014

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine the dynamics of organizational change and institutional logics in global accounting standard setting. In particular, with applying the institutional logics approach, I investigate what kind of changes were occur in the transformation of the IASC to the IASB and their theoretical implications, and the significance of the further organizational changes in the IASB after 2000. First, I inductively develop two ideal types of organizational-level competing logics in global accounting standards setting i.e., the representation and expertise logic. Then I discuss the consecutive revisions of the constitution and consequent organizational changes of the IASB from 2000 onward with using these two ideal types. Findings show that the IASB revised the constitution and further clarify its accountability to the G20 major economies as a quasi-world government; and enabled to avert its legitimacy crisis. This organizational change may also suggest the possible emergence of new logic in which re-blends democratic representation and/or personal expertise as sources of legitimacy and emphasizes accountability to the legitimacy-granting authority.

Keywords: Institutional logics, Representation, Expertise, Accountability, IASB

Suggested Citation:

Sanada, Masatsugu, Institutional Logics in Global Accounting Standard Setting (September 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2496162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2496162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,280
RANK
618,773
136 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies