Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legitimacy of Institutional Theory: The Case of CSR Reporting in Cross-Cultural Settings

34 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2014

Shayuti Mohamed Adnan

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT) - Faculty of Management and Economics

Chris van Staden

Auckland University of Technology - Faculty of Business & Law

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: September 18, 2014

Abstract

This paper puts forward an argument that cultural factors interact with the institutional structures of organizations; and thus influence their CSR reporting system. Observations on 403 annual reports, corporate websites and CSR stand-alone reports of 203 companies in China, Malaysia, India and the UK support the argument. The results show that in China, both the quality and quantity of CSR disclosure increase significantly with the existence of CSR board committees, where the culture is one of collectivism, rather than of individualism. The paper also demonstrated that government-owned companies in Malaysia provide CSR disclosure of a quality higher than non-government owned companies. A similar relationship does not apply to companies in other countries. The results testify to institutional theory — that CSR reporting is influenced by the organizational settings of a country and the culture of a country. For policy makers, it is suggested that CSR reporting policy should be drafted in a way that suits the local culture.

Suggested Citation:

Mohamed Adnan, Shayuti and van Staden, Chris and Hay, David, The Legitimacy of Institutional Theory: The Case of CSR Reporting in Cross-Cultural Settings (September 18, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2498257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2498257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
C A Adams
Internal organizational factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting: Beyond current theoretising
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal Posted: 2002
Crossref
C A Adams , N Kuasirikun
A comparative analysis of corporate reporting on ethical issues by UK and German chemical and pharmaceutical companies
The European Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 79 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C A Adams , C Larrinaga-Gonzalez
Engaging with organizations in pursuit of improved sustainability accounting and performance
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 355 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Amran , S S Devi
The impact of government and foreign affiliate on corporate social reporting: The case of Malaysia
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 386 - 404 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
507
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,536
RANK
127,554
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Institutional & Transition Economics Policy Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies