Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relevance of Fair Value of Brazilian Banks Securities in the Financial Crisis

International Journal of Emerging Markets 10.1108/IJoEM-11-2012-0150

18 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2014

Fernando Chiqueto da Silva

University of São Paulo (USP)

Ricardo Menezes Silva

University of São Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Guilherme Colossal

University of São Paulo (USP)

Nelson Carvalho

FEA-USP

Date Written: May 1, 2014

Abstract

Purpose – This paper seeks to clarify whether the fair value (FV) of Brazilian banks securities is relevant for investors in times of crisis.

Design/methodology/approach – The information gathered for 14 quarters, 2007-2010, of a cross-sectional sample of banks was used for the purpose of explaining the value of shares based on amortized cost and the FV of securities, the book value of equity and the Financial Crisis. The return on shares was regressed based on the realized and unrealized gains and losses on securities, adjusted income and the Crisis.

Findings – The results indicated that the FV is relevant. The results also corroborated the hypothesis that, during the Crisis, there was a decrease in the relevance of the FV of securities since the accounting practices adopted in Brazil did not specify how to estimate FV, as required by SFAS157, neither did they require disclosure of the FV hierarchy, as established IFRS7. It was concluded that FV has incremental explanatory power over equity, but not over amortized cost. Furthermore it possible to conclude that quarterly unrealized gains and losses on securities are not relevant, which could be explained by possible tax planning practices, since, in Brazil, the mark-to-market adjustment of securities is only deductible, or taxable, when settled. However, the realized and unrealized gains and losses are value-relevant during the period of Financial Crisis.

Originality/value – This study provides empirical evidence about the relevance of fair value during the Financial Crisis in Brazil.

Keywords: Value-relevance, Fair value, Financial Crisis

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Chiqueto da Silva, Fernando and Silva, Ricardo Menezes and Colossal, Guilherme and Carvalho, Nelson, Relevance of Fair Value of Brazilian Banks Securities in the Financial Crisis (May 1, 2014). International Journal of Emerging Markets 10.1108/IJoEM-11-2012-0150, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2499304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2499304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
F A Alali , P S Foote
The Value Relevance of International Financial Reporting Standards: Empirical Evidence in an Emerging Market
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 47 , p. 85 - 108 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Alexander , C G Bonaci , R V Mustata
Procedia Economics and Finance , volume 3 , p. 84 - 90 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Andre , A Cazavan-Jeny , W Dick , C Richard , P Walton
Fair Value Accounting and the Banking Crisis in 2008: Shooting the Messenger
Accounting in Europe , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Arellano , O Bover
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of error-components models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , p. 29 - 52 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
RANK
493,078
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies