Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Full Adoption of IFRS in Brazil: Earnings Quality and Cost of Equity Capital

45 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2014

Ricardo Menezes Silva

University of São Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Paula Nardi

University of São Paulo (USP)

Date Written: September 21, 2014

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the impact of full adoption of IFRS on earnings quality and the cost of equity capital of Brazilian public companies in the period of 2000-2011. Given the multidimensionality of accounting information quality, the portfolio approach was adopted, which is restricted to the analysis of: i) earnings management (EM); ii) conditional conservatism; iii) value relevance; and iv) timeliness. Moreover, assuming an increase in information after full adoption, this contributes to the reduction of asymmetric information in the capital market. A reasonable conjecture is that there will be a reduction in the cost of capital given the more efficient allocation of resources. This empirical study was based on a panel data approach and differences in differences. The sample was defined from the theoretical portfolio IBrX-100, as well as utilizing 30 companies that adopted IFRS in advance. The results show that the hypothesis of an increase in accounting information quality after IFRS full adoption holds true. On the other hand, the models for analyzing the equity cost of capital, based on Li (2010), suggest a reduction in the cost of capital of around 7 basis points for companies that adopted IFRS mandatorily starting in 2010.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, Cost of Equity Capital, Earnings Quality, Capital Market

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Silva, Ricardo Menezes and Nardi, Paula, Full Adoption of IFRS in Brazil: Earnings Quality and Cost of Equity Capital (September 21, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2499324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2499324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings Quality, Insider Trading, and Cost of Capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles Based versus Rules Based Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
F A Alali , P S Foote
The Value Relevance of International Financial Reporting Standards: Empirical Evidence in an Emerging Market
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 47 , p. 85 - 108 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Framework for Financial Reporting Standards: Issues and a Suggested Model
American Accounting Association's Financial Accounting Standards Committee -Aaa Fasc , volume 24 , p. 471 - 485 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Agnishwar Basu , Dr. Debabrata Mitra
Transition to Ind AS and Profit Reporting of the Initial Adopters
Our Heritage, Volume 68, Issue 8. · 10 Pages · Posted: 23 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 22 May 2020 · Downloads: 167
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,888
RANK
176,143
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies