Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Approach and Timeline for IFRS Adoption in Vietnam: Perceptions from Accounting Professionals

Research in Accounting Regulations, Vol. 26, No. 2, 2014, pp.222-229

8 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2014 Last revised: 2 Jan 2015

Duc Phan

RMIT University Vietnam

Bruno Mascitelli

Swinburne University of Technology - Faculty of Business and Enterprise

Date Written: September 26, 2014

Abstract

The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is attracting significant scholarly attention especially in markets where decision making on its adoption is approaching. Vietnam is one such market. This paper presents research based perceptions from Vietnamese accounting practitioners and academics with regard to the optimal approach and timeline for IFRS adoption in Vietnam. Extensive research during 2012 was conducted in Vietnam involving over 3000 questionnaires sent to Vietnamese auditors, accountants and accounting academics in relation to perceptions of IFRS and its suitability for Vietnam. A total of 728 useable responses were obtained resulting in a 24% effective response rate. A consolidated cohort from these responses indicated that IFRS adoption should be voluntary and not mandatory. Moreover the results also suggest that a moderated and slow adoption be utilized. A 5 year period of transition and preparation to IFRS implementation to better engage and migrate to the new system rather than a strict implementation deadline emerged as an indicated approach. This research and its findings will provide evidence based outcomes for Vietnam which will better prepare policy makers, accounting practitioners and educators to more effectively implement IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS, Vietnam, Mandatory, Voluntary, Adoption, Timeline

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Phan, Duc and Mascitelli, Bruno, Optimal Approach and Timeline for IFRS Adoption in Vietnam: Perceptions from Accounting Professionals (September 26, 2014). Research in Accounting Regulations, Vol. 26, No. 2, 2014, pp.222-229, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2501872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K Ahmed , D Henry
Accounting conservatism and voluntary corporate governance mechanisms by Australian firms
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue 3 , p. 631 - 662 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C N Albu , N Albu , D Alexander
When global accounting standards meet the local context-Insights from an emerging economy
Critical Perspectives on Accounting Posted: 2013
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J E Core , D Taylor , R E Verrecchia
When does information asymmetry affect the cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
RANK
247,257
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies