Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Open Question in the Integrated Reporting: Materiality or Conciseness?

20 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2014

Francesco Bavagnoli

University of Piemonte Orientale

Maurizio Comoli

University of Piemonte Orientale

Lorenzo Gelmini

University of Eastern Piedmont - A. Avogadro; University of Eastern Piedmont

Patrizia Riva

University of Piemonte Orientale

Date Written: September 18, 2014

Abstract

The issue of materiality has recently gained considerable momentum in the debate of scholars of Integrated Reporting.

In effect, the “International Framework” (“Integrated Reporting Framework”), released by the International Integrated Reporting Council (“IIRC”) in December 2013, includes materiality as one of the guiding principles of Integrated Reporting and it connects materiality to “matters that substantively affect the organization’s ability to create value over the short, medium and long term”.

In addition, in 2014 the IIRC itself has promoted a call for papers with the aim to investigate, inter alia, the mutual relationships between materiality and conciseness, which is another guiding principle of Integrated Reporting and which is defined in terms of “[Integrated Reporting not] burdened with less relevant information”. An effective and positive Integrated Reporting, in this sense, shall balance both principles.

Hence, the role of materiality and conciseness – in the context of Integrated Reporting – is a new and cutting edge issue in the accounting studies, which could be examined from a perspective both theoretical and empirical.

Keywords: Materiality, Integrated Reporting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bavagnoli, Francesco and Comoli, Maurizio and Gelmini, Lorenzo and Gelmini, Lorenzo and Riva, Patrizia, An Open Question in the Integrated Reporting: Materiality or Conciseness? (September 18, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2508657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2508657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,501
RANK
225,151
4 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies