Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Chinese Government Value Good Firms? Evidence from P-Chips and Red-Chips Listed in Hong Kong

38 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2014

Weishi Jia

Cleveland State University - Monte Ahuja College of Business

Grace Pownall

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Jingran Zhao

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 14, 2014

Abstract

The very long line of Chinese firms waiting to be approved for listing on the Chinese stock exchanges provides a context for testing whether the Chinese government picks the best (largest and most profitable) firms for listing on the Chinese stock exchanges. Capital-hungry Chinese firms that are not approved for listing on the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges frequently choose to reorganize themselves as overseas corporations, followed by listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. These overseas corporations with mainland Chinese operations and Hong Kong listings are called "Red-chips" if they are predominantly state-owned entities (SOEs) and "P-chips" if they are not SOEs. We propose that the Chinese government granted approval to raise equity capital domestically to those firms with better political connections (the political connectedness hypothesis) and/or to those firms with better performance and prospects (the performance hypothesis) We find that different hypotheses are consistent with the results for SOEs than with the results for Non-SOEs. We find that the political connectedness hypothesis holds for the SOEs, and the performance hypothesis holds for the Non-SOEs. We conclude that the Chinese government has approved more politically connected SOEs and more profitable Non-SOEs to list domestically.

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Weishi and Pownall, Grace and Zhao, Jingran, Does the Chinese Government Value Good Firms? Evidence from P-Chips and Red-Chips Listed in Hong Kong (October 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2510100 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2510100
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
J Aharony , C Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Cliff S. Asness , Andrea Frazzini , Lasse Heje Pedersen
Quality Minus Junk
Pages: 80 Posted: 19 Aug 2013 Last revised: 10 Jun 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Best , J Soulier
International securities law handbook , volume 5 Posted: 2005
G Chen , M Firth , L Xu
Does the Type of Ownership Control Matter? Evidence from China's Listed Companies
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 171 - 181 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,363
RANK
432,122
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies