Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Financial Reporting Standard Adoption and Banks Performance in Nigeria

21 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2014

Olawale Luqman

Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU)

Date Written: October 22, 2014

Abstract

This research work examined the impact of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) adoption on Banks performance in Nigeria. The study is based on the appraisal of IFRS compliance and Adoption. Both primary and secondary data were used in this study. The primary data would be sourced via a questionnaire administered in a survey conducted on examining the convergence to IFRS in Nigeria Commercial Banks using Access bank Plc. as a case study while the secondary data collected from Annual Report of Access Banks Plc from 2007 to 2012 as well as journals, textbooks and newspapers. The result of the analysis showed that at there is significant relationship adoption of IFRS and financial reporting of banks in Nigeria and that there is significant relationship between IFRS and banks performance in Nigeria. At degree of freedom 2 and 5% level of significance, the X2 table value is 5.99 while the calculated value is 6.380 and the F statistics computed value show a figure of 23.254 which is significant at 5% level of significant which leads to the rejection of the null hypotheses and the acceptance of the alternate hypotheses which state that there is significant relationship between adoption of international financial reporting standards and financial reporting of banks in Nigeria and that there is significant relationship between international financial reporting standards and banks performance in Nigeria. However, comprehensive implementation of the standard to its totality by firms in the country, and the regulatory authorities should monitor strict compliance.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standard, Performance, Adoption, Compliance

Suggested Citation:

Luqman, Olawale, International Financial Reporting Standard Adoption and Banks Performance in Nigeria (October 22, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2513212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2513212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
Abdulkadir
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in Developing Countries: The Case of Nigeri
International journal of Business and Management , volume 7 Posted: 2012-02
K Abdulwahab
FG saves N160 billion from due process
The Tide Posted: 2006
M Akanbi
Corruption and the challenges of good governance in Nigeria
Lagos: Faculty of Social Sciences Posted: 2004
O Akunle
Developments in commercial, trade and business laws
The politics of Nigerian corruption. Lagos.(Available on news.bbc.co.uk) Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
742
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,442
RANK
78,567
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies