Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance-Vested Stock Options and Interest Alignment

British Accounting Review, Vol. 41, No. 1, 2009

Posted: 23 Oct 2014 Last revised: 3 Apr 2015

Yu Flora Kuang

University of Melbourne

Bo Qin

The University of Melbourne

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of performance-vested stock options (PVSOs) in aligning management interests and shareholder wealth. Using 4238 executive-level observations for 1383 executive directors from the largest 244 UK non-financial firms over the 1999-2004 period, we find that the use of PVSO schemes in executive compensation contracts is associated with greater interest alignment. The evidence also shows that PVSOs outperform traditional stock options (TSOs) in providing incentives. Moreover, the results suggest that difficult vesting targets negatively affect managers' choice of effort, resulting in the divergence of managers' and shareholders' interests.

Keywords: Stock options; Pay-performance sensitivity; Equity incentive

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M51, M52

Suggested Citation:

Kuang, Yu and Qin, Bo, Performance-Vested Stock Options and Interest Alignment. British Accounting Review, Vol. 41, No. 1, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2513194
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
994
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies