Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and the Information Content of Earnings Announcements: A Cross-Country Analysis

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Oct 2014 Last revised: 18 Aug 2016

Sie Ting Lau

Nanyang Technological University (NTU) - Division of Banking & Finance

Keshab Shrestha

Sunway University

Jing Yu

The University of Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: July 29, 2014

Abstract

Using firm-level data from 23 developed markets, we document a positive association between overall firm-level governance quality and the informativeness of earnings announcements measured by abnormal stock return variance. This finding is robust after controlling for the potential endogeneity of firm-level corporate governance. Further analyses reveal that firms with strong governance show little evidence of earnings management, appoint Big 4 auditing firms, and attract analyst following, implying a positive link between strong corporate governance and the information quality of earnings announcements. Finally, there is some evidence that the relation between firm-level governance and market reactions around the announcements exists only in countries characterized by a transparent information environment and strong legal investor protection.

Keywords: Earnings Announcements, Information Content, Corporate Governance, Investor Protection

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G15

Suggested Citation:

Lau, Sie Ting and Shrestha, Keshab and Yu, Jing, Corporate Governance and the Information Content of Earnings Announcements: A Cross-Country Analysis (July 29, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2515162
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,064
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies