Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Mandatory IFRS Adoption in the EU: A Review of Empirical Research

Information for Better Markets, Forthcoming

166 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2014 Last revised: 20 Apr 2015

Brian Singleton-Green

Independent

Date Written: April 20, 2015

Abstract

This paper reviews the empirical research evidence on the effects of mandatory IFRS adoption in the EU. The research is classified and assessed in relation to the objectives of EU Regulation 1606/2002, which made IFRS mandatory in the EU. The review finds that there is evidence of benefits following IFRS adoption in relation to financial reporting transparency and comparability, the cost of capital, market liquidity, corporate investment efficiency and cross-border capital flows. But the evidence on some of these matters is disputed and it is unclear how far the benefits identified are attributable to the adoption of IFRS or to other concurrent institutional changes, particularly in enforcement. What is clear is that the benefits found are uneven, varying with the institutions and incentives that apply for different companies in different countries. On the possible role of IFRS in the financial crisis in the EU, more research is needed before conclusions can be drawn. The paper also considers the problems of interpreting the research and drawing conclusions from it for policy making purposes.

Keywords: International accounting, IFRS, transparency, comparability, capital market effects

JEL Classification: F02, G15, G38, K22, M41, M48, N20

Suggested Citation:

Singleton-Green, Brian, The Effects of Mandatory IFRS Adoption in the EU: A Review of Empirical Research (April 20, 2015). Information for Better Markets, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2515391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
246 References
of the commentators should be assumed to agree with the views expressed in this report, and they are not responsible for any errors or omissions. The report's principal author is Brian
Mariarosario Agostino , Danilo Drago , B Damiano , Silipo
The value relevance of IFRS in the European banking industry
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 36 , p. 437 - 457 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Joseph Aharony , Ran Barniv , Haim Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Anwer S Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,491
RANK
33,125
246 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies