Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Accounting Standards on the Financial Reporting Properties of Private Firms – Evidence from the German Accounting Law Modernization Act

Business Research, Vol. 10, Issue 2, pp. 215-248, October 2017

Posted: 2 Nov 2014 Last revised: 2 Nov 2017

Julia Zicke

Goethe University Frankfurt

Florian Kiy

Goethe University Frankfurt

Date Written: August 07, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates whether the 2009 German Accounting Law Modernization Act has affected the reporting and accounting practices of German private firms. In reforming German accounting standards, numerous accounting options were deleted, several accounting rules were transferred from IFRS to German GAAP with some modifications, and disclosure requirements were extended. In our analysis, we examine the changes in financial reporting and their effects on disclosures. We use four financial reporting property measures: discretionary accruals, the correlation between operating cash flow and accruals, the persistence of earnings, and the predictability of earnings. The results reveal no change across all financial reporting properties. Examining disclosure compliance for capitalized development costs and other provisions reveals substantial variation in compliance.

Keywords: German Accounting Law Modernization Act, German GAAP, Accounting standards, Financial reporting properties, Private firms

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Zicke, Julia and Kiy, Florian, The Effects of Accounting Standards on the Financial Reporting Properties of Private Firms – Evidence from the German Accounting Law Modernization Act (August 07, 2017). Business Research, Vol. 10, Issue 2, pp. 215-248, October 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2517376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2517376
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,189
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies