Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management before and after IFRS Adoption: The Case of Greece

Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 17, Iss 1, pp. 2-23, 2016

Posted: 9 Nov 2014 Last revised: 26 Jan 2016

Aikaterini Ferentinou

University of Graz

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Date Written: November 8, 2014

Abstract

Purpose: The aim of this study is to examine the use of accrual-based vs. real earnings management by Greek firms, before and after the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The research is motivated by the fact that past studies have indicated the existence of significant levels of earnings management (EM) for Greece in particular before IFRS.

Design/methodology/approach: Accrual-based earnings management (AEM) is examined by assessing performance-adjusted discretionary accruals, while real earnings management (REM) is defined in terms of abnormal levels of production costs, discretionary expenses, and cash flows from operations, for a three-year period before and after the adoption of IFRS in 2005.

Findings: We find evidence on a statistically significant shift from AEM to REM after the adoption of IFRS, indicating the replacement of one form of EM with the other.

Research limitations/implications: The validity of the results depends on the ability of the empirical models used to efficiently capture the existence of AEM and REM.

Practical implications: IFRS adoption aims to improve accounting quality, especially in countries with high need for such an improvement; however, the tendency to substitute one form of EM with another highlights unintended consequences of IFRS adoption, which do not improve the informational content of financial statements if EM continues under different forms.

Originality/value: Under the expectation that IFRS adoption should lead to improvements in accounting quality, this study examines whether IFRS actually led to a reduction of EM practices for a country with exceptionally high levels of EM before IFRS, by accounting for all possible forms of EM.

Keywords: Greece, IFRS, accrual-based earnings management, real earnings management

JEL Classification: M41, G18

Suggested Citation:

Ferentinou, Aikaterini and Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C., Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management before and after IFRS Adoption: The Case of Greece (November 8, 2014). Journal of Applied Accounting Research, Vol. 17, Iss 1, pp. 2-23, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2520857
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,968
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies