Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Users’ Primacy Principle in the European Accounting Directive: An Analysis of the Standard-Setting Process

Paper presented at the 12th World Congress of Accounting Educators and Researchers, November 13-15, 2014 – Florence, Italy

46 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2014

Alberto Quagli

Università degli Studi di Genova

Paola Ramassa

Università degli Studi di Genova

Gabriele D'Alauro

Università degli Studi di Genova

Date Written: November 15, 2014

Abstract

In 2009 the European Commission launched the public consultation on the review of the Accounting Directives as part of the project to modernise and simplify EU accounting rules, which led to the new European Accounting Directive in 2013. This process offers a unique research opportunity to explore the under researched – but extremely relevant – EU accounting standard-setting process, in order to understand constituents’ different orientations on key topics in reporting regulation and the role played by the users’ primacy principle in shaping the new Directive.

Results show significant differences in respondents’ views on the choice between mandatory requirements and voluntary disclosure and on differential reporting. Constituents from different geographical contexts do not share the same view on either topic, while users, the accounting profession and preparers express different orientations with regard to mandatory reporting and voluntary disclosure. In the light of these results, the new Directive seems to be inspired by the users’ primacy principle for issues connected to mandatory reporting and voluntary disclosure, in contrast with preparers’ expectations.

This study adds to the literature by focusing on the European standard-setting process, which limited research has looked at so far, with theoretical and public policy implications and also provides a basis for further research in this area.

Keywords: Accounting Directives, European accounting system, Differential accounting, standard-setting process, International accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Quagli, Alberto and Ramassa, Paola and D'Alauro, Gabriele, The Users’ Primacy Principle in the European Accounting Directive: An Analysis of the Standard-Setting Process (November 15, 2014). Paper presented at the 12th World Congress of Accounting Educators and Researchers, November 13-15, 2014 – Florence, Italy, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2526482 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2526482
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Cna
Study on Accounting requirements for SMEs Posted: 2011
Vicky Cole , Diane Breesch , Joël Branson
Are Users of Financial Statements of Publicly and Non-Publicly Traded Companies Different or Not? An Empirical Study
Pages: 25 Posted: 16 Jun 2009 Last revised: 29 Sep 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Collis
Demand not command in financial reporting by SMEs in the UK. Paper presented at the 6th Annual Workshop on Accounting in Europe Posted: 2010
J Collis
Determinants of voluntary audit and voluntary full accounts in micro-and non-micro small companies in the UK. Accounting and Business Research , volume 42 , p. 441 - 468 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,521
RANK
505,351
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies