Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Reporting Transparency Affect Industry Coordination? Evidence from the Duration of International Cartels

Forthcoming in The Accounting Review

51 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2014 Last revised: 17 Jul 2018

Igor Goncharov

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Caspar David Peter

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Rotterdam School of Management (RSM)

Date Written: April 6, 2018

Abstract

Firms coordinate their actions with industry peers, thereby affecting product market competition. Using the cartel setting, we investigate how financial reporting transparency affects industry coordination. Economic theory predicts that transparency might either prolong cartel duration through increased contracting efficiency or destabilize cartels due to earlier detection of deviating members. We test these predictions on firms indicted by the European Commission for anticompetitive behavior between 1980 and 2010. Using reporting under internationally recognized accounting standards (IFRS or U.S. GAAP) as our measure of reporting transparency, we find that following a transparent accounting framework decreases cartel duration. We show that this finding is partly explained by transparent segment disclosure, which provides a means for the verification of agreed-upon sales for a given product or region. Consistent with the view that transparent reporting leads to earlier detection of deviating members, we further show that transparency lowers cartel duration when the likelihood of cheating is high.

Keywords: Reporting transparency, IFRS, competition, implicit contracts, cartels

JEL Classification: M41, M48, L40, L44, K21

Suggested Citation:

Goncharov, Igor and Peter, Caspar David, Does Reporting Transparency Affect Industry Coordination? Evidence from the Duration of International Cartels (April 6, 2018). Forthcoming in The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2530385 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2530385
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
670
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,456
RANK
89,516
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies