Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research and Development, Uncertainty, and Analysts’ Forecasts: The Case of IAS 38

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting (26) 3, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2014

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Brigitte Eierle

University of Bamberg

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Leif Steeger

University of Augsburg

Date Written: November 26, 2014

Abstract

This paper analyzes the consequences of the capitalization of development expenditures under IAS 38 on analysts’ earnings forecasts. We use unique hand-collected data in a sample of highly research and development (R&D) intensive German listed firms over the period 2000 to 2007. We find that the capitalization of development costs is significantly associated with both higher individual analysts’ forecast errors and forecast dispersion. This suggests that the increasing complexity surrounding the capitalization of development costs negatively impacts forecast accuracy. However, for firms with high underlying environmental uncertainty, forecast errors are negatively associated with capitalized development expenditures. This indicates that the negative impact of increased complexity on forecast accuracy can be outweighed by the information contained in the signals from capitalized development costs when the underlying environmental uncertainty is high. The findings contribute to the ongoing controversial debate on the accounting for self-generated intangible assets. Our results provide useful insights on the link between capitalization of development costs, environmental uncertainty, and analysts’ forecasts for accounting academics and practitioners alike.

Keywords: Financial analysts, forecast accuracy, research & development capitalization, uncertainty, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dinh, Tami and Eierle, Brigitte and Schultze, Wolfgang and Steeger, Leif, Research and Development, Uncertainty, and Analysts’ Forecasts: The Case of IAS 38 (November 26, 2014). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting (26) 3, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2531094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Ahmed , H Falk
The riskiness of future benefits: The case of capitalization of R&D and capital expenditures
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 45 - 60 Posted: 2009
Crossref
G A Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,186
RANK
202,182
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies