Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The SEC's Elimination of 20-F Reconciliation and Information Asymmetry

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Dec 2014

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Saiying Deng

Kent State University

Parveen P. Gupta

Lehigh University - Department of Accounting

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Date Written: November 30, 2014

Abstract

The U.S. SEC adopted a rule in December 2007 to eliminate the 20-F reconciliation requirement for foreign private issuers preparing financial statements under IFRS as issued by the IASB. In this paper we examine whether eliminating the reconciliation is associated with information asymmetry for such foreign issuers during the 2005-2008 sample period. We find that information asymmetry decreases after such firms discontinue the 20-F reconciliation. Moreover, information asymmetry reduction is more pronounced for firms with higher reconciliation constraint proxied by higher pre-rule disclosure incentive and for firms with higher cost savings proxied by more reductions in audit fees in the post-rule period. We also document that foreign IFRS firms change accounting policies more frequently than foreign non-IFRS firms after the relaxation of the reconciliation constraint. Together, these findings provide empirical evidence supporting the SEC’s decision to eliminate the 20-F reconciliation.

Keywords: Eliminating the reconciliation; IFRS; information asymmetry

JEL Classification: M41, G15, G18

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Lucy Huajing and Deng, Saiying and Gupta, Parveen P. and Sami, Heibatollah, The SEC's Elimination of 20-F Reconciliation and Information Asymmetry (November 30, 2014). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532214
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,472
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies