Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Firms Downlist? Evidence on the Costs of IFRS Compliance and Enforcement

49 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2014 Last revised: 8 Jun 2016

Joerg-Markus Hitz

University of Tübingen

Stephanie Müller-Bloch

University of Goettingen

Date Written: June 7, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the role of costs associated with mandatory IFRS adoption and pertinent enforcement activities. We exploit an exogenous shock to the cost-benefit trade-offs associated with opting out of the EU-regulated market in Germany, and find that the costs of IFRS compliance and enforcement play an important role for firms’ decisions to downlist, i.e., to migrate from the regulated market to unregulated segments. We exploit two particular features of our setting, the availability of error findings established by the enforcement mechanism, and the observability of market and accounting data after firms downlisted. This enables us to identify a strong enforcement effect, which on many occasions appears to be the principal driver of firms’ decisions to opt out of the IFRS and enforcement mandate. Our findings shed light on the hitherto virtually unexplored costs of the EU’s IAS regulation. They raise concerns about potentially restrictive costs of applying and complying with IFRS, and suggest that self-selection issues need to be addressed when investigating economic effects of mandatory IFRS adoption.

Keywords: IFRS, enforcement, bonding, going dark, downlisting

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Hitz, Joerg-Markus and Müller-Bloch, Stephanie, Why Do Firms Downlist? Evidence on the Costs of IFRS Compliance and Enforcement (June 7, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2533959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2533959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R Ball
IFRS -10 years later. Accounting and Business Research, forthcoming Posted: 2016
M E Barth , D Israeli
Disentangling mandatory IFRS reporting and changes in enforcement
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 178 - 188 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Berger , L Pasch
Die kapitalmarktorientierten Unternehmen in Deutschland -Eine Analyse der Veränderungen seit Einführung des Enforcement
CORPORATE FINANCE biz , volume 4 , issue 6 , p. 384 - 388 Posted: 2013
Court Berlin Regional
Decision of , volume 17 Posted: 2008-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
616
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,833
RANK
99,786
10 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies