Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption in Libya

International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, ISSN 2162-3082, 2014, Vol. 4, No. 2

23 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2014

Mohamed Yakalhef

Tripoli University - Economics and Political Faculty

Date Written: December 14, 2014

Abstract

This study investigates the challenges that face implementing of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by Libyan firms. In particular, this paper analyses the effect of legal, economic, accounting education and culture structures on adopting of IFRS in the Libyan context. A questionnaire was used to collect data regarding the effect of some selected challenges on IFRS adoption in Libya. The results of the study indicate that IFRS adoption by Libyan companies has faced some obstacles such as accounting education and economic issues. This research extends accounting literature by studying the challenges of IFRS in Libya (a developing country), focusing on the impact of legal, accounting education, economic and culture in IFRS implementation.

Keywords: IFRS, developing countries, Libya and accounting

Suggested Citation:

Yakalhef, Dr Mohamed Abulgasem, Challenges of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption in Libya (December 14, 2014). International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, ISSN 2162-3082, 2014, Vol. 4, No. 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Abd El-Razik , A
Challenges of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in The Islamic Accounting World, Case of Middle Eastern Countries
Scientific BulletinEconomic Sciences , volume 8 , issue 14 Posted: 2009
A Agnaia
Assessment of Management Training Needs and Selection for Training: The case Libyan Companies
International Journal of Manpower , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 31 - 51 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Agnaia
Management Training and Development within its Environment: The Case of Libyan Industrial Companies
International Journal of European Industrial Training , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 117 - 123 Posted: 1997
Crossref
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 4 , issue 2
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,901
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,818
RANK
20,284
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Political Economy: Investment & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies