Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Stock Prices of Japanese Firms Adopting International Financial Reporting Standards: Early Evidence

Doshisha Shogaku (The Doshisha Business Review) 67(6): 35-47

Posted: 16 Dec 2014 Last revised: 1 Oct 2019

Fumiko Takeda

Keio University

Takeshi Watanabe

University of Tokyo - Department of Technology Management for Innovation

Date Written: May 23, 2015

Abstract

Two issues are investigated herein, using Japanese data: (1) the relationship between corporate governance and voluntary adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and (2) market reactions to announcements of such an adoption of IFRS. Prior studies suggest that the economic benefits of IFRS adoption are limited to countries with strong enforcement of laws and regulations, generating concerns as to whether IFRS adoption would bring the intended benefits in Japan. Based on a probit model, we find that the probability of voluntary IFRS adoption is higher for the firms that are younger, larger, less leveraged, audited by a Big 4 audit firm, and have a higher foreign shareholders ratio. This result is consistent with the notion that firms that have greater incentives to provide more information tend to choose voluntary adoption of IFRS. In addition, an event study shows that stock prices of the firms that announce their adoption of IFRS tend to increase compared to other firms that have a similar probability of IFRS adoption, except for the firms switching from the U.S. GAAP to IFRS. Our results show that voluntary IFRS adoption is positively evaluated in Japan in that the country has transformed its economic and business environment over the past few decades.

Keywords: IFRS; international accounting; international financial reporting standards; Japan

JEL Classification: M41; M48; G32; G34; K22

Suggested Citation:

Takeda, Fumiko and Watanabe, Takeshi, Corporate Governance and Stock Prices of Japanese Firms Adopting International Financial Reporting Standards: Early Evidence (May 23, 2015). Doshisha Shogaku (The Doshisha Business Review) 67(6): 35-47, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538622 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538622
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,928
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies