Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Press Visibility on Voluntary Disclosure: Country-Level Approach

Corporate Ownership and Control Journal, 11(2), pp. 72-83, 2014

Posted: 19 Dec 2014

Maria Prokofieva

Victoria University - College of Business

Colin Clark

Victoria University

Date Written: March 1, 2014

Abstract

The study investigates the effect of press coverage on voluntary disclosure in the narrative sections of annual reports of Australian and Chinese listed companies. A combination of the legitimacy theory and media agenda setting theory is employed to examine their application in the context of different country-level governance mechanisms, in particularly in Anglo-Saxon (Australia) and Asian (China) economies. The study is based on a sample of 200 listed companies and employs multiple regression analyses. The findings show that press coverage is positively and significantly associated with voluntary disclosure suggesting that closer media attention increases voluntary disclosure. The effect of press coverage is mediated by country-level governance mechanisms, suggesting stronger association in countries with stronger legal enforcement mechanisms.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Media, Agenda Setting Theory, Legitimacy Theory

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Prokofieva, Maria and Clark, Colin, The Effect of Press Visibility on Voluntary Disclosure: Country-Level Approach (March 1, 2014). Corporate Ownership and Control Journal, 11(2), pp. 72-83, 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539104
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
735
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies