Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on the Unauditability of Estimated Returns in Pension Plan Accounting and Their Note Disclosures

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2540663

62 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2014

Uli Menzefricke

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: October 19, 2014

Abstract

This study empirically analyzes the long term and short term accuracy of over 3000 individual firm pension accounting estimates of rates of return on pension assets over ten consecutive years (2001-2010). We find that the point estimates allowed by GAAP create verifiability challenges for auditors and do not appear to be useful for rational decision making under uncertainty. Moreover, we find that the additional note disclosures of the estimation process may not compensate for the bad accounting that arises from relying on unauditable estimation processes. These findings do not support recent changes to the conceptual framework of financial reporting proposed in the IASB’s July 2013 Discussion Paper. Specifically, the IASB’s proposal to de-emphasize the importance of verifiability and to rely on more note disclosures of the estimation process can reduce the usefulness of financial reporting by adding to estimation uncertainty in the accounting for pension costs. Our study empirically supports the conjectures in Christiansen et al. (2012) about increasing problems with estimation uncertainties of accounting estimates in the current financial reporting environment.

Keywords: unauditable accounting estimates, pension asset returns, disclosure quality, estimation uncertainty, significant risk, verifiability

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Menzefricke, Uli and Smieliauskas, Wally, Evidence on the Unauditability of Estimated Returns in Pension Plan Accounting and Their Note Disclosures (October 19, 2014). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2540663, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2540663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2540663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Specifically, unless the reliability of ERRs can be verifiably improved current pension accounting may be unauditable
B Adams , M M Frank , T Perry
The Potential for Inflating Earnings Through the Expected Rate of Return on Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets
Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 443 - 464 Posted: 2011
Crossref
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 1998. Auditing Estimates and Other Soft Accounting Information. AICPA
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,803
RANK
588,428
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies