Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Factors are Perceived to Influence Consideration of IFRS Adoption by Vietnamese Policymakers?

Journal of Contemporary Issues in Business and Government, Volume 20, Issue 1, 2014, pp. 27-40

14 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2014

Duc Phan

RMIT University Vietnam

Date Written: December 22, 2014

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) developed by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) are designed to be a single high quality set of global accounting standards. IFRS were originally developed to serve the listed companies in developed capital markets. However, IFRS are increasingly being adopted by emerging economies, disregarding the concerns of the relevance and appropriateness of IFRS to those economies. It has been argued that emerging economies had little choice but to proceed with IFRS upon pressures from external forces. This paper users survey evidence to examine the perceptions of Vietnamese accountants regarding pressures for IFRS adoption on Vietnamese policymakers. Although the Ministry of Finance of Vietnam announced its intention to align Vietnamese accounting legislation with IFRS in November 2013; they have not yet determined the roadmap and pathway for IFRS adoption or convergence. The findings may allow the accounting practitioners, educators, and policy makers to prepare themselves for the change that Vietnam might pursue regarding IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS, Vietnam, institutional, coercive, mimetic, normative, legitimacy, isomorphism

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, G38

Suggested Citation:

Phan, Duc, What Factors are Perceived to Influence Consideration of IFRS Adoption by Vietnamese Policymakers? (December 22, 2014). Journal of Contemporary Issues in Business and Government, Volume 20, Issue 1, 2014, pp. 27-40, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2541987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Al-Omari
The Institutional Framework of Financial Reporting in Jordan
AM 2010 , p. 32 - 50
C N Albu , N Albu , Pali-Pista , Sf , Gîrbină , Mm , Selimoglu , Sk , Kovács , Dm , J Lukács , G Mohl , L Müllerová , M Paseková , A P Arsoy , Sipahi , Strouhal
Implementation of IFRS for SMEs in Emerging Economies: Stakeholder Perceptions in the Czech Republic
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 140 - 175
Crossref
O Assenso-Okofo , Ali Ahmed , K
The Development of Accounting and Reporting in Ghana
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 459 - 480 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Bui
A study of the development of accounting in Vietnam
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,778
RANK
235,061
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies