Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Potential Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Vietnam: From Legitimacy to Isomorphism

Conference Proceedings, The Twenty-Six Asian-Pacific Conference on International Accounting Issues, 26-31 October 2014, Taipei, Taiwan, Paper 145

Posted: 23 Dec 2014 Last revised: 2 Jan 2015

Duc Phan

RMIT University Vietnam

Bruno Mascitelli

Swinburne University of Technology - Faculty of Business and Enterprise

Date Written: October 26, 2014

Abstract

Purpose – This paper discusses the perception of Vietnamese accountants regarding the legitimacy motives and institutional isomorphisms upon the consideration of IFRS adoption by Vietnamese policy makers.

Design/methodology – A total of 728 received responses from 3,000 mailing questionnaires to Vietnamese auditors, accountants and academics across Vietnam in 2012 produce an effective response rate of 24 per cent.

Findings – The results confirm the influence from coercive, normative, mimetic isomorphisms and legitimacy motives on the consideration of IFRS adoption in Vietnam.

Research limitation – The sample was not large enough to generalise the findings. The non-response bias may be present in the results.

Practical implication – The confirmed presence of institutional isomorphisms suggests the Vietnamese policy makers to recognise these influential forces and utilise them to support the accounting transformation process in Vietnam.

Originality/value – This is the first study examines the influence of institutional isomorphism on the consideration of IFRS adoption by Vietnamese accounting policymakers.

Paper type – Research paper.

Keywords: IFRS, Vietnam, perceptions, institutional, coercive, normative, mimetic, legitimacy, isomorphism

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, G38

Suggested Citation:

Phan, Duc and Mascitelli, Bruno, Potential Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Vietnam: From Legitimacy to Isomorphism (October 26, 2014). Conference Proceedings, The Twenty-Six Asian-Pacific Conference on International Accounting Issues, 26-31 October 2014, Taipei, Taiwan, Paper 145, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2542030
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
861
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies