Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Individual Tax Morale for Russia: Before and after Flat Tax Reform

International Business Research 8(1): 60-80 (2015)

21 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2015

Bee Yew

SBE of Fayetteville State University; Fayetteville State University - School of Business and Economics

Valentin Milanov

Fayetteville State University

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 2, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines individual tax morale in Russia before and after the introduction of flat tax reform in 2001. The World Values (WVS) and European Values Survey (EVS) are used to compare individual tax morale in 1999, 2006 and 2011. An ordered probit regression model is applied to study the effects of socio-demographic and institutional variables on individual tax morale. A new variable for employment sector that appeared in 2006 and 2011 values surveys is included in our model. The probit regression results revealed significant coefficients for income scale and the employment sector variables with negative marginal effects on tax morale. Socio-demographic variables have varying effects on tax morale while institutional variables are positively related to individual tax morale for the three years. To detect linear trend associations, Mantel-Haenszel hypothesis test results indicate that individual tax morale for Russia has not changed in the years before and after flat tax reform.

Keywords: flat tax, tax reform, Russia, ordered probit regression,tax morale, ethics, tax evasion, employment sector, income level

JEL Classification: C12, C14, C42, D63

Suggested Citation:

Yew, Bee and Yew, Bee and Milanov, Valentin and McGee, Robert W., An Analysis of Individual Tax Morale for Russia: Before and after Flat Tax Reform (January 2, 2015). International Business Research 8(1): 60-80 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2544702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Agresti
An Introduction to Categorical Data Analysis Posted: 2007
Crossref
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm
Encyclopedia of Taxation and Tax Policy Posted: 2005
J Alm , &amp; B Torgler
Culture differences and tax morale in the United States and in Europe
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 27 , p. 224 - 246 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,522
RANK
158,103
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies