Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Analyst Forecast Accuracy: The Role of Financial Statement-based Forecasts and Analyst Characteristics

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2015 Last revised: 7 Oct 2018

Matthias Demmer

Free University of Berlin (FUB) - Department of Business and Economics

Paul Pronobis

Free University of Bolzano-Bozen

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: September 28, 2018

Abstract

This study examines whether the improvement in analyst forecast accuracy around mandatory IFRS adoption is associated with the improvement in the accuracy of financial statement-based forecasts. We find significant out-of-sample improvement in financial statement-based forecast accuracy around mandatory IFRS adoption and significant improvement in analyst forecast accuracy only in countries that made concurrent improvements to financial reporting enforcement. We show that the improvement in analyst forecast accuracy is associated with the improvement in financial statement-based forecast accuracy around IFRS adoption. We also show that analyst forecasts, particularly for firms whose analysts forecast under favorable conditions (i.e., analysts who are less busy with more experience and resources), have a greater association with financial statement-based forecasts after mandatory IFRS adoption in countries with concurrent changes in enforcement. Furthermore, we document that analyst forecasts, particulary for firms whose analysts forecast under unfavorable conditions (i.e., analysts who are busier with less experience and resources), do not fully exploit the predictive ability of financial statements after IFRS adoption for firms in countries without concurrent changes in enforcement. Finally, we find that the analyst underreliance on financial-statement based forecasts is associated with year-ahead stock returns. These results are robust to controlling for disclosure quality and comparability. The findings are important for understanding the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on the predictive ability of financial statements, and for understanding analysts’ use of financial statements around mandatory IFRS adoption.

Keywords: financial statement analysis, mandatory IFRS adoption, analyst forecasts, profitability forecasts

JEL Classification: M41, G17

Suggested Citation:

Demmer, Matthias and Pronobis, Paul and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Analyst Forecast Accuracy: The Role of Financial Statement-based Forecasts and Analyst Characteristics (September 28, 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2544566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2544566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
810
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,410
RANK
69,875
12 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies