Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS on the Relationship between Conservatism and Investment Efficiency

Comptabilité Contrôle Audit, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2015

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Sophie Marmousez

HEC Montreal

Date Written: January 6, 2015

Abstract

We test to see whether a higher degree of conservatism is associated with greater investment efficiency (reducing over- and under-investment) for a sample of French firms before and after the mandatory adoption of IFRS in 2005. While a theoretical link between conservatism and investment efficiency is easily established, the question is whether this link still remains after the adoption of IFRS, which are generally considered to reduce conservatism. Empirical tests find a significant decrease in conservatism after IFRS adoption. This result is consistent with the results reported by Piot et al. (2011), Ahmed et al. (2013) and André et al. (2013). Our results show that in the pre-IFRS period, conservatism limited over- and under-investment. For the post-IFRS period, however, conservatism does not seem to play any role in improving investment efficiency. This paper contributes to the academic and regulatory debate over the economic consequences of the qualitative characteristics of useful financial information and the impact of IFRS adoption. The adoption of IFRS has certainly led to a new equilibrium between the various qualitative characteristics of financial information, but the costs and benefits of that equilibrium remain difficult to measure.

Keywords: Conservatism, Earnings quality, Investment effeciency, Over- and Under-investment, IFRS, France

JEL Classification: M41, G31

Suggested Citation:

Andre, Paul and Filip, Andrei and Marmousez, Sophie, The Impact of IFRS on the Relationship between Conservatism and Investment Efficiency (January 6, 2015). Comptabilité Contrôle Audit, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2545938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
Accounting conservatism in Europe and the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption: Do country, institutional and legal differences survive? Posted: 2013
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,671
RANK
168,175
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies