Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Country Differences in Disclosure Quality: A Study of Fair Value Disclosures by European Real Estate Companies.

48 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2015

Stefan Sundgren

Umea School of Business and Economics, Umeå University; University of Vaasa

Juha Mäki

University of Vaasa

Antonio Somoza-Lopez

University of Barcelona

Date Written: Octuber 1, 2013

Abstract

Companies are under IAS 40 required to report fair values of investment properties on the balance sheet or to disclose them in the notes. The standard requires also that companies have to disclose the methods and significant assumptions applied in determining fair values of investment properties. However, IAS 40 does not include any illustrative examples or other guidance on how to apply the disclosure requirements. We use a sample with publicly traded companies from the real estate sector in the EU. We find that a majority of the companies use income based methods for the measurement of fair values but there are considerable cross-country variations in the level of disclosures about the assumptions used in determining fair values. More specifically, we find that Scandinavian and German origin companies disclose more than French and English origin companies. We also test whether disclosure quality is associated with enforcement quality measured with the “Rule of Law” index according to Kaufmann et al. (2010), and associated with a secrecy-versus transparency-measure based on Gray (1988). We find a positive association between disclosure and earnings quality and a negative association with secrecy.

Suggested Citation:

Sundgren, Stefan and Mäki, Juha and Somoza-Lopez, Antonio, Cross-Country Differences in Disclosure Quality: A Study of Fair Value Disclosures by European Real Estate Companies. (Octuber 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2546747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2546747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G J Bernston
Fair value accounting: a cautionary tale from Enron
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 465 - 484 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C Botosan
Disclosure level and cost of capital
The Accounting Review , volume 72 , p. 323 - 349 Posted: 1997
G Braun , R Rodriguez
Earnings management and accounting values: a test of Gray (1988)
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 7 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,604
RANK
434,536
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies