Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Profitability Forecasts with Information on Earnings Quality

Posted: 11 Jan 2015

Matthias Demmer

Free University of Berlin (FUB) - Department of Business and Economics

Date Written: January 8, 2015

Abstract

Prior literature documents the usefulness of DuPont disaggregation for many applications such as predicting firms’ future profitability, operating income, analysts’ forecast errors, and stock market returns. At the same token, researchers also emphasize the impact of earnings quality for economic decision models and the allocation of capital. However, there is a lack of understanding how earnings quality affects profitability forecast models. This paper comprehensively explores whether and to what extent different earnings quality factors moderate the accuracy of profitability forecasts that solely use financial statement information. I contribute to the existing literature along three dimensions. First, I reject findings from previous financial statement analysis literature that changes in firms’ profit margin do not provide incremental usefulness for predicting changes of future return on assets. After controlling for such influences, the incremental usefulness of this accounting signal increases significantly. Second, this paper contributes to the strand of earnings quality literature by suggesting an approach to include this set of information into forecasts. Hereto, I disentangle the two main drivers of earnings quality, fundamental performance and influences of the accounting system. Last, the paper adds to the literature on the perception of capital markets towards accounting information. By examining the awareness of financial analysts and investors of earnings quality information, I document that both sets of market participants seem to efficiently impound this information in their investment decisions.

Keywords: Financial Statement Analysis, Forecasting Profitability, DuPont Analysis, Earnings Quality

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Demmer, Matthias, Improving Profitability Forecasts with Information on Earnings Quality (January 8, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2547110 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2547110
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies