Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption and the Predictive Power of Earnings Components

19 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2015 Last revised: 24 Jan 2015

Verônica Santana

University of São Paulo (USP)

Raquel Sarquis

FEA-USP

Alex Rathke

FEA-RP, University of São Paulo

Date Written: January 1, 2015

Abstract

This study aims to analyze the predictive power of current accruals and cash flows for future earnings and how IFRS adoption have affected this power, for general firms and for firms with relative higher and lower levels of accruals. Using a sample of 10 countries that have adopted IFRS in 2005, we found that IFRS seems to have significantly increased the predictive power of both accruals and cash flows from operations, while the latter present higher information content for future earnings. When analyzing firms with higher and lower levels of accruals, we found that the predictive power of cash flows is associated with this level and that IFRS appears to have substantially increased its intensity for firms with higher levels of accruals. For firms with the lower levels, the effect of IFRS on the accruals component is the one highlighted, which power have significantly increased after adopting the international standards.

Keywords: Cash Flows, Accruals, IFRS, Information Content, Predictive Power

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Santana, Verônica and Sarquis, Raquel and Rathke, Alex, IFRS Adoption and the Predictive Power of Earnings Components (January 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2548825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2548825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Ali
The incremental information content of earnings, working capital from operations, and cash flows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 74 Posted: 1994
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Do earnings reported under IFRS tell us more about future earnings and cash flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , William H. Beaver , John R. M. Hand , Wayne R. Landsman
Accruals, Cash Flow and Equity Values
Pages: 44 Posted: 8 Mar 1999
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
RANK
456,685
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies