Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Knocking on Tax Haven's Door: Multinational Firms and Transfer Pricing

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5132

30 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2015

Ronald B. Davies

University College Dublin (UCD)

Julien Martin

University of Quebec at Montreal (UQAM)

Mathieu Parenti

Catholic University of Louvain (UCL)

Farid Toubal

Université Paris Dauphine; Centre d'Etudes Prospectives et d'Info. Internationales (CEPII); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: December 30, 2014

Abstract

This paper analyzes the transfer pricing of multinational firms. We propose a simple framework in which intra-firm prices may systematically deviate from arm’s length prices for two motives: i) pricing to market, and ii) tax avoidance. Multinational firms may decide not to avoid taxes if the risk to be sanctioned is high compared to the tax gap. Using detailed French firm-level data on arm’s length and intra-firm export prices, we find that both mechanisms are at work. The sensitivity of intra-firm prices to foreign taxes is reinforced once we control for pricing-to-market determinants. Most importantly, we find almost no evidence of tax avoidance if we disregard exports to tax havens. Back-of-the-envelope calculations suggest that tax avoidance through transfer pricing amounts to about 1% of the total corporate taxes collected by tax authorities in France. The lion’s share of this loss is driven by the exports of 450 firms to ten tax havens. As such, it may be possible to achieve significant revenue increases with minimal cost by targeting enforcement.

Keywords: transfer pricing, tax haven, pricing to market

JEL Classification: F230, H250, H260, H320

Suggested Citation:

Davies, Ronald B. and Martin, Julien and Parenti, Mathieu and Toubal, Farid, Knocking on Tax Haven's Door: Multinational Firms and Transfer Pricing (December 30, 2014). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 5132, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2550105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2550105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
E Atalay , A Hortacsu , C Syverson
Vertical integration and input flows
American Economic Review , volume 104 , issue 4 , p. 1120 - 1168 Posted: 2014
Crossref
E J Bartelsman , R M W J Beetsma
Why pay more? Corporate tax avoidance through transfer pricing in OECD countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 9 , p. 2225 - 2252 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P Bastos , J Silva
The quality of a firm's exports: Where you export to matters
Journal of International Economics , volume 82 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 111 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Becker , R B Davies
A Negotiation-Based Model of Tax-Induced Transfer Pricing, mimeo Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,851
RANK
158,949
26 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies