Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Descriptive Analysis of Ethics Codes, CSR, and Efforts to Combat Human Trafficking

International Journal of Corporate Governance, 5(3/4): 156-177, 2014

40 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2015

Stefan Linnhoff

Murray State University - College of Business

Hannah Russell

Texas A&M University (TAMU), College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Department of Agricultural Economics, Students

Katherine Taken Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Around the world, in the accounting and business fields, there is no issue bigger than ethics. Most major multinational companies have adopted formal policies on ethics. Businesses are expected to do what is right in all their activities, including financial reporting, taking care of the environment, treatment of employees, and dealings with customers. Such matters fall under the umbrella of corporate governance and corporate social responsibility (CSR). Providing quality goods and services is critical to success, but businesses are also expected to contribute to the betterment of society in general. For example, a number of major corporations are working together to help end modern-day slavery, also called human trafficking. The aims of this paper are as follows: to review the relevant literature on ethics and CSR, to provide a descriptive analysis of ethics codes of the Fortune 100 corporations, and to review corporate efforts to combat human trafficking. Regarding corporate ethics codes, findings show that most are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Section of corporate websites. Many corporations are very actively engaged in corporate social responsibility. A number of corporations have joined forces to combat human trafficking. These findings are meaningful to business practitioners and academic researchers, and particularly accounting professionals and business managers as they do their part to advance the highest standards of ethics and CSR in their organizations.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, CSR, ethics codes, human trafficking

JEL Classification: I3, J18

Suggested Citation:

Linnhoff, Stefan and Russell, Hannah and Smith, Katherine Taken and Smith, Murphy, A Descriptive Analysis of Ethics Codes, CSR, and Efforts to Combat Human Trafficking (2014). International Journal of Corporate Governance, 5(3/4): 156-177, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2551003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
ET Section 501 -Acts Discreditable
AICPA Posted: 2013
Marketing
AMA Posted: 2014-01-21
Denis G Arnold
Global Justice and International Business
Business Ethics Quarterly , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 143 Posted: 2012
Crossref
The American Medical Ethics Revolution: How the AMA's Code of Ethics has Transformed Physicians' Relationships to Patients, Professionals, and Society Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
556
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,874
RANK
113,827
2 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies