Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploration of the Impact of Basel III on the Performance of Commercial Banks

25 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2015 Last revised: 21 Jan 2015

Professor Alain Ndedi

International Council for Family Business; YENEPAD; Saint Monica University; University of Johannesburg; University of Pretoria; Prime Light Open University

Henry Jong Ketuma

Saint Monica University

Date Written: January 19, 2015

Abstract

Commercial banks are major actors in the financial industry and the economy as a whole. Due to financial globalization which is simple terms can be defined as the free movement of capital and money, and the advent of the financial crisis of 2008, the world economy suffered financial turmoil. Then there came a need to revise the existing regulation of the sector, in which certain accepted and others looked at it as a route to failure. It is in this light that experts in the field felt that it is important to look at the impact of Basel III at a performance of commercial banks. Simply put, the Basel III is a global, voluntary regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy, stress testing and market liquidity risk.

The main objective of this paper is to examine the impact of the Basel III principles of (capital requirement, leverage ratio, and liquidity requirements) as indicators for commercial bank performance. This could also be looked through the preferred return rate and risk appetite of shareholders. Their research design used in this study is a mixed method approach by using both qualitative and quantitative method in gathering data. The main data came from secondary sources from the EU countries. Furthermore, data will be presented on tables and a descriptive analysis will be used to conduct their analysis. The results of this research using three scenarios and the findings were as follows: Increase in capital doesn’t necessary result to increase in financing cost. A higher leverage will obtain a higher tax advantage and therefore a lower capital is preferred. The new Basel III capital ratios will prevent over-leveraging and such tax advantage would be reduced, and finally the new requirements do have a significant impact on the net income and credit portfolio allocation.

Suggested Citation:

Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Ketuma, Henry Jong, Exploration of the Impact of Basel III on the Performance of Commercial Banks (January 19, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2551780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2551780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
A Ahmed , H Michael , I Gregorio , K Malcolm , O Padraic
Possible unintended consequences of Basel III and Solvency II Posted: 2011
C Albert , W Ying , Jacky Y
Banking Beyond Basel III: The future of high performance in Chinese banks Posted: 2011
Baitshepi Tebogo
Basel III and Risk Management in Banking
Pages: 17 Posted: 16 May 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Bill , C Kakei , M Alistair , Steve T
Basel III is the cure worse than the disease?" Case business school Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Nader Alber , Hatem Ramadan
The Impact of Applying Basel Committee Norms on Asset Quality of Egyptian Banks
9 Pages · Posted: 4 Jul 2017 · Downloads: 1,274
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,005
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,056
RANK
52,013
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies