Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IFRS as Tax Base: Potential Impact on a Small Open Economy

European Financial and Accounting Journal, 2014, 9(4): pp. 59-75

17 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2015 Last revised: 22 Jan 2015

David Anthony Procházka

University of Economics, Prague

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

The IFRS adoption has improved the quality of accounting information significantly. However, huge costs are incurred by all subjects involved. The process has considerable consequences for tax systems, too. State authorities are solving how to ensure the control over tax duty fulfillment under a new financial reporting system. As corporate income tax systems in code law countries are tightly bound up with accounting regulation, governments are forced to decide whether and in which way companies preparing financial statements under the IFRS shall reflect the IFRS based figures in their income tax returns. The paper focuses on specifics of a small open economy, such as the Czech Republic. Four cardinal research issues are identified, if the eligibility of the IFRS as a tax base is ruminated on. Three issues are already assessed with the reference to publicly available data; the last one needs further scrutiny, as non-public data from tax returns are needed for the analysis.

Keywords: IFRS, Taxation, Small open economy

JEL Classification: M41, H25

Suggested Citation:

Prochazka, David Anthony, The IFRS as Tax Base: Potential Impact on a Small Open Economy (December 1, 2014). European Financial and Accounting Journal, 2014, 9(4): pp. 59-75, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2552179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
C Alley , J Simon
The Interface between Financial Accounting and Tax Accounting: A Summary of Current Research
Working Paper Series University of Waikato , issue 84 Posted: 2005
Andreas Dinkel , Sara Keller , Deborah Schanz
Tax Attractiveness and the Location of German-Controlled Subsidiaries
arqus Discussion Paper No. 142 Pages: 51 Posted: 15 Mar 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Eberhartinger , M Klostermann
What If IFRS Were a Tax Base? New Empirical Evidence from an Austrian Perspective
Accounting in Europe , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 168 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C Fuest , B Huber , J Mintz
Capital Mobility and Tax Competition. Foundations and Trends® in Microeconomics , volume 1 , p. 1 - 62 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,065
RANK
397,014
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies