Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Flight to Quality in International Markets: Investors’ Demand for Financial Reporting Quality during Political Uncertainty Events

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2552173

66 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2015 Last revised: 5 Nov 2017

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Qingyuan Li

Wuhan University - School of Economics and Management

Xin Wang

The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: August 9, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether international equity mutual-fund managers shift their portfolios toward stocks with higher financial reporting quality during periods of high political uncertainty. Our study is motivated by two primary factors. First, prior research shows evidence of fund managers’ “flight to quality” (e.g., to less risky securities) during periods of uncertainty. Second, recent theoretical research concludes that stocks with higher financial reporting quality are assessed as less sensitive to systematic risk (such as political uncertainty). We employ national elections as exogenous increases in systematic risk in the local markets and accordingly use an international sample of mutual funds that focus on local markets. We find that mutual-fund managers shift their equity holdings to stocks with higher financial reporting quality during election periods when political uncertainty is higher. Such a flight-to-quality effect is less pronounced for elections with larger expected electoral margins in the pre-election period (i.e., when the incumbent is more likely to win the election) and for countries with higher transactions costs. In contrast, the effect is more pronounced when governments have greater involvement in the local economy. Our inferences are robust to alternative proxies for political uncertainty and financial reporting quality and to numerous other sensitivity analyses.

Keywords: Political uncertainty, National elections, Flight to quality, Financial reporting quality, International mutual funds

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G34, G20, M41, F00, F20, F21, F30

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Li, Qingyuan and Wang, Xin, Flight to Quality in International Markets: Investors’ Demand for Financial Reporting Quality during Political Uncertainty Events (August 9, 2016). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2552173, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2552173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2552173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Does it all add up? Benchmarks and the compensation of active portfolio managers
Journal of Business , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 350 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A Ali , X Chen , T Yao , T Yu
Do mutual funds profit from the accruals anomaly
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S C Andrade , V Chhaochharia
Information immobility and foreign portfolio investment
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 2429 - 2463 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty. Working paper Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
747
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,080
RANK
77,889
8 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies