Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does IFRS Adoption Influence Financial Reporting? An Empirical Study on Financial Institutions

Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2014

20 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2015

Yusuf Nulla

University of Liverpool Online

Date Written: November 28, 2014

Abstract

This paper primarily examines the effect of the mandatory International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption in Canada by Canadian financial institutions. It is a comparative study between the Canadian GAAP financial reporting from 2008 to 2010 and IFRS financial reporting from 2011 to 2012. Since this research is an empirical study, the quantitative research method is applied. The research question for this research study is: Does IFRS adoption influence financial reporting? This research finds that earnings quality has increased due to an increase in value relevance (earnings influence to market price), increase in persistency and predictability in earnings and cash flows, increased influence of earnings to shareholder value, and increase in accruals and timeliness loss of recognition (reduce in income smoothing). However, it also finds that valuation usefulness of earnings to book value per share (accounting valuation) has reduced.

Keywords: IFRS, Financial Institutions, Accounting Quality, Organizational Performance

JEL Classification: M10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nulla, Yusuf, Does IFRS Adoption Influence Financial Reporting? An Empirical Study on Financial Institutions (November 28, 2014). Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2554006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A S Ahmed , M J Neal , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality, preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standard, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
T Atwood , M Drake , J Myers , L Myers
Do earnings reported under IFRS tell us more about future earnings and cash flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Alexandros Garefalakis , Christos Lemonakis , Panagiotis Ballas , Vassiliki Balla
Quality of financial reporting under IFRS and corporate governance influence: Evidence from the Greek banking sector during crisis
Journal of Governance and Regulation/Volume · 13 Pages · Posted: 16 Mar 2022 · Downloads: 242
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,543
RANK
210,213
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies