Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Tax Rates Under IP Tax Planning

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 14-111

50 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2015

Lisa Evers

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Date Written: November 10, 2014

Abstract

Tax planning with intangibles has become one of the most popular and most vividly debated topics in international taxation. We incorporate various intellectual property (IP) tax planning models into forward-looking measures of effective tax rates, namely the disposal of intangibles to low-tax subsidiaries, intra-group licensing arrangements, and intra-group contract R&D. In doing so, we draw upon the methodology put forward by Devereux and Griffith and amend this model by considering a research & development (R&D) investment which is carried out by a parent company, whereby the resulting intangible is exploited by a foreign subsidiary. We point out analytically under which conditions IP tax planning achieves the objective of reducing the effective average tax rate of the group. We find that the disposal of intangibles to low-tax subsidiaries does not achieve this tax planning objective, if the true value of the asset is subject to tax upon the disposal. We show to what extent the parent must understate the value of the intangible in order to reduce the group’s tax burden. We furthermore point out that contract R&D may generally achieve a significant lower effective tax burden. We present cost of capital and effect average tax rates to illustrate these findings.

Keywords: corporate taxation, effective tax rate, tax planning, profit shifting, transfer pricing, intellectual property, intangible assets, contract R&D

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H32, H87, K34

Suggested Citation:

Evers, Lisa and Spengel, Christoph, Effective Tax Rates Under IP Tax Planning (November 10, 2014). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 14-111, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2555488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2555488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Biegalskie
The ALP: Fiscalism or Economic Realism?, Intertax , volume 38 , p. 177 - 186 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Boos
International Transfer Pricing: The Valuation of Intangible Assets Posted: 2003
G Cameron
On the measurement of real R&D: Divisia price indices for UK business enterprise R&D
Research Evaluation , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 215 - 219 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Chakravarty , S Ray
Circulars on Transfer Pricing of Contract R&D Centres: The Road Ahead
International Transfer Pricing Journal , volume 20 , issue 11 , p. 404 - 406 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
424
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,430
RANK
157,700
2 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies