Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Disclosure and Valuation of Foreign Cash Holdings

AFA 2015 Boston Meetings Paper

65 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2015

Shuo Yang

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Division of Accounting

Date Written: January 31, 2015

Abstract

This paper studies the disclosure and valuation of foreign cash holdings using hand-collected data from 2010 to 2013. The SEC has been commenting on foreign cash in its review of 10-K filings since 2011. I find that the SEC tends to target big firms with limited growth and high permanently reinvested earnings. Conditional on the SEC’s comment, firms with Big 4 auditors are more likely to disclose foreign cash holdings, but firms with a CEO who is also the Chairman and more free cash flow are less likely to disclose. I find no evidence that the value of foreign cash is discounted relative to domestic cash on average, although the value of foreign cash decreases in foreign cash level. Furthermore, foreign cash is less valuable when firms only disclose limited foreign operations in Exhibit 21 relative to the overseas operations collected by the OSIRIS international database and when firms operate in more foreign countries, but more valuable when the U.S. parent controls the decision-rights of foreign subsidiaries and when foreign growth opportunities are higher. There is no evidence that proxies for the repatriation tax are negatively associated with the value of foreign cash. I also examine market reactions to the Treasury Department’s recent crackdown on tax inversions.

Keywords: Foreign Cash, Valuation, Disclosure, SEC Comment Letters

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Shuo, The Disclosure and Valuation of Foreign Cash Holdings (January 31, 2015). AFA 2015 Boston Meetings Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2558350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2558350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Anwer S Ahmed , Scott Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Bipin Ajinkya , Sanjeev Bhojraj , Partha Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Rosanne Altshuler , Harry Grubert
Repatriation taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational financial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Gordon M Bodnar , Charles Tang , Joseph Weintrop
Both Sides of Corporate Diversification: The Value Impacts of Geographic and Industrial Diversification Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,565
RANK
166,710
7 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies