Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Protection and the Role of Firm-Level Financial Transparency in Attracting Foreign Investment

The Financial Review, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2015 Last revised: 30 Apr 2015

Bowe Hansen

Virginia Commonwealth University

Mihail K. Miletkov

University of New Hampshire - Paul College of Business and Economics

M. Babajide Wintoki

University of Kansas - School of Business

Date Written: October 7, 2014

Abstract

We ask if companies can attract foreign equity capital by improving the transparency of their financial statements. Using a large panel of firms across fifty-one countries outside the U.S., we show that the answer is yes, but only in countries with relatively high levels of investor protection. In countries with poor investor protection, unilaterally increasing firm-level transparency has no effect on foreign ownership. Furthermore, our results indicate that in countries with higher levels of investor protection the positive association between transparency and foreign ownership is stronger following a country’s adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards.

Keywords: Foreign Ownership; Home Bias; Financial Transparency; Institutional Development; Investor Protection

JEL Classification: G15, G28, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hansen, Thomas Bowe and Miletkov, Mihail K. and Wintoki, Modupe Babajide, Investor Protection and the Role of Firm-Level Financial Transparency in Attracting Foreign Investment (October 7, 2014). The Financial Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2559926 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2559926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,002
RANK
401,129
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies