Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Incentives, Institutional Factors and Accounting Quality: The IFRS Adoption in Brazil

48 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2015

Ana Gisbert

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Bruno Salotti

FEA-USP

Date Written: February 15, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the role of firm-specific factors that influence the company decision to improve the level of accounting quality after the IFRS adoption. Particularly, we focus on an emerging market economic with an institutional setting characterized by weak governance mechanisms and low-speed institutional changes. The chosen setting allows to contribute with further evidence to the current literature relative to the role of institutional vs. firm-specific factors on reporting incentives and therefore, on the financial reporting decisions. Changing the accounting system is not enough to improve the context of financial opacity across emerging markets, as any new accounting regulation must be simultaneously accompanied by significant institutional changes that strength the enforcement mechanisms in place (Fan et al., 2011, Ball et al., 2000). When these “formal” institutional changes do not take place, companies may be force to establish a firm-specific commitment towards the appropriate enforcement of the new accounting system, in order to obtain the attained benefits of a accounting regulatory change. Consistent with this idea, we look at the impact of a set of firm-specific variables that may affect the financial reporting decision and therefore, the degree of accounting quality. Particularly, we focus a set of variables related to (a) the ownership structure, (b) a set of governance mechanisms: auditor and listing status; (c) the degree of internationalization, and (d) other financial characteristics. The results provide evidence on the relevance of a set of firm-specific characteristics on the level of earnings quality increase. Particularly, internationalization and growth opportunities are clear determinants of increases in earnings quality. Consistent with the previous literature, the ownership concentration reveals as a limiting factor to increases in earnings quality after the IFRS adoption. Finally, the results also suggest the lack of strong oversight and enforcement mechanisms compared to other institutional settings may harm the expected role of the auditors or alternative governance mechanisms such as the capital markets listing categories.

Keywords: IFRS, Brazil, Earnings Quality, Institutional Factors, Firm-specific incentives

JEL Classification: C21, C22, C33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gisbert, Ana and Salotti, Bruno, Firm Incentives, Institutional Factors and Accounting Quality: The IFRS Adoption in Brazil (February 15, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2565533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2565533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
C S Amstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2014
Crossref
C L Becker , M L Defond , J Jimbalvo , K R Subramanyam
The Effect of Audit quality on earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1998
Crossref
B S Black , A G De Carvalho , E Gorga
Corporate Governance in Brazil
Emerging Markets Review , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 38 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B S Black , A G De Carvalho , J O Sampaio
The Evolution of Corporate Governance in Brazil Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,127
RANK
195,180
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies