Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Analysis of International Accounting Standards, Equity Markets, and Economic Growth in Developing Countries

JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTING, VOL 6 NO 2, AUTUMN 1995

Posted: 9 Jul 1998

Robert K. Larson

University of Dayton - Accounting

Sara York Kenny

IFRS Interpretations Committee

Abstract

The International Accounting Standards Committee receives widespread support for its efforts to "harmonize" international accounting. International Accounting Standards (IASs) are, however, controversial, particularly in the context of developing countries. The authors report the results of an exploratory study empirically examining the relationships between the adoption of IASs, equity market development, and economic growth in developing countries with equity markets. They analyzed 27 developing countries by means of a cross-national sociological research design and partial least squares. The results indicate no major effect on developing countries' equity market development or economic growth due to adoption of LASs. Questions for future research are proposed.

JEL Classification: M41, O19

Suggested Citation:

Larson, Robert Keith and Kenny, Sara York, An Empirical Analysis of International Accounting Standards, Equity Markets, and Economic Growth in Developing Countries. JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTING, VOL 6 NO 2, AUTUMN 1995, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2565
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,101
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies