Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impairment Estimates for Available-for-Sale Equity Instruments Under IFRS: Evidence from Italian Banks

Financial Reporting, 2014

Posted: 18 Feb 2015 Last revised: 7 Mar 2015

Gianluca Ginesti

Department of Economics, Management, Institutions - University of Naples

Carlo Drago

Università degli Studi "Niccolò Cusano"

Giuseppe Sannino

Second University of Naples - Department of Economics

Date Written: February 17, 2015

Abstract

Literature indicates that accounting policy choices under a given set of standards is an important topic due to the different economic implications. Daske et al. (2013) suggest that firms have substantial discretion in applying IFRS. Despite the implications on how the firms apply IFRS have motivated many studies, to our knowledge, little is known about the impairment estimates for the available-for-sale (AFS) equity instruments. Using a sample of Italian banks over the period 2010-2011, we investigate the determinants of the accounting decisions for impairment estimates. We find that the reporting quality and profitability are explanatory factors of the banks’ decisions to modify the thresholds of the impairment indicators used to assess AFS equity instruments. Our study also suggests that banks use discretion in implementing the IAS 39 to determine the impairment of the AFS equity instruments.

Keywords: financial instruments, IFRS, accounting choices, impairment, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Ginesti, Gianluca and Drago, Carlo and Sannino, Giuseppe, Impairment Estimates for Available-for-Sale Equity Instruments Under IFRS: Evidence from Italian Banks (February 17, 2015). Financial Reporting, 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2566338
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
836
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies