Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Coverage: Does the Listing Location Really Matter?

41 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2015

Omaima A. G. Hassan

Aberdeen Business School

Frank S. Skinner

Brunel University

Date Written: February 18, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the impact of listing location, whether the stock is listed on the main board or the junior market of the London Stock Exchange, on the number of analysts following the stock. It also examines whether the determinants of analyst coverage can be conditional on listing location. We employ count panel regression methods that better suit the nature of a nonnegative integer dependent variable. Using a variation of Bhushan’s (1989) model, we find that listing location has a significant positive association with analyst coverage. This indicates that stocks listed on the main board attract more analysts than can be explained by existing factors. The result holds even after including additional control variables. We further examine determinants of analyst coverage for the main market (FTSE350) and the alternative investment market (AIM) individually. We find that factors which explain the supply and demand functions of analyst services for stocks listed on the main board are different from those listed on the junior market. Importantly, pooling the stocks of these two markets together can mask significant differences and can give incorrect inferences about determinants of analyst coverage.

Keywords: Analyst Coverage, Security Analyst, Institutional Investors, AIM

JEL Classification: G12; G14; M4; G230; G240; M490

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Omaima A. G. and Skinner, Frank S., Analyst Coverage: Does the Listing Location Really Matter? (February 18, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2566875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2566875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A Abdallah , W Abdallah , A Ismail
Do accounting standards matter to financial analysts? An empirical analysis of the effect of cross-listing from different accounting standards regimes on analyst following and forecast error
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 168 - 197 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover Me: Managers' Responses to Changes in Analyst Coverage in the Post-regulation FD Period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B Baik , J Kang , R Morton
Why are analysts less likely to follow firms with high managerial ownership?
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 25 , p. 171 - 200 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Barth , E R Kasznik , M F Mcnichols
Analyst coverage and intangible assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,072
RANK
663,174
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies