Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Secrecy and the Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Earnings Quality in Europe

2015 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

37 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2015 Last revised: 30 Apr 2017

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Reza Monem

Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Mohammad Tareq

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Accounting and Law

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Date Written: November 30, 2014

Abstract

This study examines the effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on earnings quality in countries which exhibit high financial secrecy. Earnings quality is proxied by signed abnormal accruals and earnings conservatism. Using 19,324 firm-years from 14 countries over the period 1998-2011, we find that firms in a high-secrecy country tend to report higher abnormal accruals and earnings conservatism, which results in lower earnings quality. On the other hand, we find that mandatory IFRS adoption improves earnings quality by decreasing abnormal accruals and earnings conservatism. Our study provides evidence of the interaction between national culture, as indicated by secrecy, and IFRS adoption and helps to explain differences in earnings quality across different jurisdictions following IFRS adoption.

Keywords: Earnings quality; national culture; secrecy; mandatory IFRS adoption; signed abnormal accruals; earnings conservatism

Suggested Citation:

Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and Monem, Reza M. and Tareq, Mohammad and van Zijl, Tony, Secrecy and the Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Earnings Quality in Europe (November 30, 2014). 2015 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2576279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
O Hope , T Kang , W Thomas , Y Yoo
Culture and auditor choice: A test of the secrecy hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 27 , issue 5 , p. 357 - 373 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M N Houqe , T Van Zijl , K Dunstan , W Karim
The effect of IFRS adoption and investor protection on earnings quality around the world
The International journal of Accounting , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 358 Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Hribar , D Nichols
The use of unsigned earnings quality measures in tests of earnings management
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 72 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Hung
Accounting standards and value relevance of financial statement: An international analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 401 - 420 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,537
RANK
584,242
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies