Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accruals, Growth, Accounting Distortions and Stock Returns: The Case of FRS3 in the UK

North American Journal of Economics and Finance, Vol. 33, pp. 39–54, 2015

Posted: 13 Mar 2015 Last revised: 24 Jun 2015

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: March 13, 2015

Abstract

We investigate the accrual anomaly, conditional on the mandatory adoption of Financial Reporting Standard No. 3: Reporting Financial Performance (FRS3) by UK firms. We show that return predictability associated with accruals attributable to accounting distortions is largely attenuated and not statistically significant at conventional levels, after the introduction of FRS3. In contrary, the predictive ability of accruals attributable to growth for future returns is not substantially affected and remains strong in magnitude from the pre-FRS3 to the post-FRS3 periods. As a consequence, total accruals continue to predict returns following FRS3. Overall, our findings are broadly consistent with increased accounting disclosure and investor protection eliminating inefficiencies and promoting accurate share prices in the capital market.

Keywords: accrual anomaly, growth, accounting distortions, FRS3

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., Accruals, Growth, Accounting Distortions and Stock Returns: The Case of FRS3 in the UK (March 13, 2015). North American Journal of Economics and Finance, Vol. 33, pp. 39–54, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2577700
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies