Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does National Culture Influence Corporate Carbon Disclosure Propensity?

Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 2 Apr 2015

Le Luo

University of Newcastle (Australia)

Qingliang Tang

University of Western Sydney

Date Written: March 24, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the influence of culture on management’s response to the challenge of climate change, as manifested in firms’ voluntary participation in carbon disclosure via the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We argue that national culture impacts managerial attitudes and philosophies about environmental protection and thus affects the willingness as well as the extent to which managers recognize the need for emissions control and disclosure. Based on a sample of 1,762 firms from 33 countries, we found that cultural dimensions of masculinity, power distance and uncertainty avoidance are strongly and consistently related to carbon disclosure propensity, regardless of whether Hofstede or Global Leadership and Organizational Behaviour Effectiveness (GLOBE) culture measures are used. Our results also show individualism and long-term orientation has significant impact under Hofstede measure though not under GLOBE measure after controlling for other compounding factors. In addition, our evidence implies that national culture may moderate the effect of carbon control mechanisms, such as emissions trading schemes. Finally, the empirical evidence indicates the impact of culture is not sensitive to national wealth and industry membership. The findings suggest culture exerts incremental influences beyond economic and regulatory incentives and therefore should be adequately considered in combat against global warming and particularly in negotiation for an international climate agreement that is more acceptable to societies with disparate cultural backgrounds.

Keywords: National culture, climate change, carbon disclosure propensity

JEL Classification: M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Luo, Le and Tang, Qingliang, Does National Culture Influence Corporate Carbon Disclosure Propensity? (March 24, 2015). Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2584363
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,666
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies