Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Commentary on Prospects for Global Financial Reporting

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-22

21 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2015

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: March 24, 2015

Abstract

This commentary reviews the status of the global use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), including in the US, and offers thoughts on prospects for global financial reporting. Many countries require or permit the use of IFRS, but the goal of truly global, high quality financial reporting has not yet been achieved. Variation in application and enforcement of the standards and scope for improving them remain. However, it would be premature to abandon the goal thereby forgoing the potential benefits it promises. Rather, we should develop plans for the next phase of the journey towards global financial reporting.

Keywords: IFRS, global financial reporting, US SEC, capital markets

JEL Classification: E61, F02, G15, M40

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E., Commentary on Prospects for Global Financial Reporting (March 24, 2015). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2584546 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2584546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M E Barth , R Kasznik , M F Mcnichols
Analyst coverage and intangible assets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,678
RANK
149,881
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies