Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accrual-Based Earnings Management in State Owned Companies: Evidence from Italy and Implications for Transnational Accounting Regulation

Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 7 issue 6, 2014, pp 1026-1040

Posted: 24 Mar 2015

Francesco Capalbo

Second University of Naples - Department of Economics; Seconda Universita degli Studi di Napoli

Alex Frino

Macquarie University

Vito Mollica

Macquarie Graduate School of Management; Capital Markets CRC Limited (CMCRC); Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Riccardo Palumbo

University of Chieti-Pescara; European Capital Markets CRC

Date Written: March 24, 2015

Abstract

Purpose - - European Union is setting a transnational regulation to harmonize its Members States national accounts throughout the transition from cash to accrual basis. The risk that the increased discretion that the accrual basis will take into public sector accounting might result in an increase in window dressing activities, might obstruct that regulation. This paper aims to contribute to solving the doubt analysing whether state owned enterprises already operating under an accrual based accounting manage their earnings, if they do it more than privately owned enterprises and the conditions under which it is more likely to occur.

Design/methodology/approach -- This paper measures earnings management for a large sample of unlisted Italian state and privately owned enterprises using a framework developed by Stubben (2010). We use regression analysis to estimate the variables which predict abnormal accruals including firm size, leverage and profitability.

Findings - - We provide evidence that Italian state owned enterprises manage their earnings. We also find that state owned enterprises manage their earnings less then privately owned enterprises. Finally, we provide evidence that earnings management by state owned enterprises decreases with firm size and increases with profitability.

Practical implications - - The European Union (EU) recently introduced a new transnational accounting directive in which it prescribes the preparation of financial statements based on accrual accounting for all European public sector entities, arguing that it reduces the window dressing that is allowed by cash accounting. Since Italian state owned enterprises already prepare their accounts on an accruals basis, by analysing their accounting behaviour we are able to determine the variables which predict when earning management is more likely to occur in a public sector accrual accounting environment, and therefore we provide guidance which may be useful in shaping the transition process from cash accounting to accrual accounting by identifying the types of entities whose accounts should be subject to greater regulatory scrutiny.

Research limitations/implications -- While our study is the first to examine earnings management in a public sector accrual accounting environment for a sample of European firms, namely Italian firms, we call for more research into this issue examining public entities in other EU member states or public entities other than State owned enterprises. Contributing to the relations between state ownership and earnings management is likely to ease the acceptation of transnational regulation.

Originality value -- Earnings management in a public sector accrual accounting environment had been analysed only for Chinese listed companies. We extend previous analysis to a sample of European (Italian) state owned enterprises which are unlisted. We also extend previous work by determining the characteristics of firms which manage their earnings.

Paper type: research paper.

Suggested Citation:

Capalbo, Francesco and Frino, Alex and Mollica, Vito and Palumbo, Riccardo, Accrual-Based Earnings Management in State Owned Companies: Evidence from Italy and Implications for Transnational Accounting Regulation (March 24, 2015). Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 7 issue 6, 2014, pp 1026-1040, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2584404
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,794
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies