Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Smoothing and Determinants of Loan Loss Reserves: Evidence from Europe, US, Asia and Africa

Journal of Business, Economics and Finance, 4 (2), 302-315

14 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2015 Last revised: 15 Jul 2017

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This study provides a link between accounting, managerial discretion and monetary policy. Monetary authorities encourage banking institutions to supply credit to the economy. Increased bank supply of credit is a good thing but too much of a good can be a bad thing. This paper investigates under what circumstances excessive loan supply ceases to be a good thing and how bank managers react to this. After examining 82 bank samples, I find that (i) bank underestimate the level of reserves to boost credit supply in line with expectations of monetary authorities, particularly, in Asia and UK (ii) consistent with the credit smoothing hypothesis, US and Chinese banks smooth credit supply to minimize unintended stock market signaling; (iii) managerial priority during a recession is to smooth credit over time rather than to boost credit supply; (iv) non-performing loans, bank portfolio risk and loan portfolio size are significant determinants of the level of loan loss reserves; and (v) credit risk, proxy by loan growth, do not have a significant impact on loan loss reserves but tend to have some significant effect during a recession, particularly, when change in loans is negative. The implications of these findings are two-fold: (i) bank managers use their discretion over reserves to influence bank credit supply; (ii) bank supply of credit is not solely driven by loan demand but by a combination of several factors, particularly, capital market concerns, the need to avoid scrutiny from monetary authorities, and country-specific factors.

Keywords: Credit Risk, Monetary Policy, Loan Loss Reserves, Credit Smoothing, Accounting, Signaling, Bank supervision

JEL Classification: E52, E51, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Credit Smoothing and Determinants of Loan Loss Reserves: Evidence from Europe, US, Asia and Africa (2015). Journal of Business, Economics and Finance, 4 (2), 302-315, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2586567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: A reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
 Beaver , E Engel
Discretionary behavior with respect to allowance for loan losses and the behavior of security prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 177 - 206 Posted: 1996
Crossref
 Bhat
Banks and income smoothing: an empirical analysis
Applied Financial Economics , volume 6 , issue 6 , p. 505 - 510 Posted: 1996
Crossref
J A Bikker , P A Metzemakers
Bank provisioning behaviour and procyclicality
Journal of International Financial Markets , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 157 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,137
RANK
856,872
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies