Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does International Accounting Standard No. 27 Improve Investment Efficiency?

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2015

Audrey Wen‐Hsin Hsu

National Taiwan University; University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research (CBR)

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Hamid Pourjalali

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 1, 2015

Abstract

We examine how the adoption of International Accounting Standard No. 27 (hereafter, IAS 27) consolidation rules affects firm level investment efficiency. IAS 27, effective in Taiwan for fiscal years beginning after 2005, defines the “control” criteria for consolidated entities as majority control rights rather than majority financial ownership. IAS 27 discourages firms’ ability to manage earnings through the use of unconsolidated entities and reduces information asymmetry between managers and shareholders. Consistent with the standard’s intended objectives, we document that firms experience a significant increase in investment efficiency after adopting IAS 27. Firms subject to overinvestment (underinvestment) are more likely to reduce (increase) investment toward a more optimal level after IAS 27 adoption. We also find that foreign investors increase their shareholdings in Taiwanese firms after the adoption of IAS 27.

Keywords: International accounting standards; International Accounting Standard No. 27; IAS 27; Consolidated financial statements; Investment efficiency.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Audrey Wen‐Hsin and Hsu, Audrey Wen‐Hsin and Jung, Boochun and Pourjalali, Hamid, Does International Accounting Standard No. 27 Improve Investment Efficiency? (April 1, 2015). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2588356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P D Wysocki
Portfolio preferences of foreign institutional investors
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 29 , issue 12 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A G Ahearne , W L Griever , F E Warnock
Information costs and home bias: An analysis of US holdings of foreign equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Consolidated financial statements
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) , volume 51 Posted: 1959
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,943
RANK
274,135
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies