Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Análise do Impacto do IFRS em Indicadores Financeiros em Empresas Brasileiras (Analysis of the Impact of IFRS Adoption on Financial Variables for Brazilian Companies)

18 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2015

Marcos Ferreira

Pontifical Catholic University of Sao Paolo (PUCSP); Faculdade de Informática e Administração Paulista (FIAP)

Eduardo Flores

University of São Paulo (USP)

Clarice Martins

University of São Paulo (USP)

Joelson Oliveira Sampaio

Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Sao Paulo School of Economics

Date Written: April 5, 2015

Abstract

Portuguese Abstract: Este trabalho visa avaliar o impacto da adoção das IFRS em variáveis usuais em pesquisas empíricas de finanças no mercado brasileiro, tais como: tamanho (ativo total); ativo imobilizado; ROA (retorno sobre o ativo); ROE (retorno sobre o patrimônio líquido); alavancagem, refletindo os efeitos do passivo financeiro sobre o PL; e book-to-market (B/M). Dado o tipo de mudança ocorrida nas regras contábeis, pesquisadores especialistas ressaltam que o padrão, e comportamento de algumas rubricas contábeis ficaram naturalmente modificadas (Antunes et al, 2012). Por meio de regressões pooled OLS, com janelas de tempo para períodos diversos, antes e depois da convergência para o IFRS, achamos evidência de que algumas variáveis realmente têm um comportamentos diferentes, estatisticamente significante, antes e depois da mudança. O ativo total e o PL tendem a ter valores maiores. Consequentemente, ROA e ROE tendem a ter valores menores e B/M e alavancagem tendem também a ser maiores.

English Abstract: This research intends to evaluate the impact of the adoption of IFRS in Brazil on financial variables commonly used in empirical research. These variables are: size of the firm (measured by total assets); net PP&E; ROA; ROE; leverage (measured by the ratio of total debt to book equity); and the value effect (measured by the ratio book-to-market, B/M). Given the depth of changes from Brazilian previous accounting set of rules to the new IFRS rules, accounting researchers and specialists remark that the pattern of behavior of such variables indeed changed (Antunes et al, 2012). Using pooled OLS regressions, and testing for fixed windows before and after the adoption of the IFRS, we find that some variables have statistical significant changes. Total asset and book equity tend to have higher values, while ROA and ROE tend to have lower values. B/M and leverage tend also to increase after the adoption.

Note: Downloadable document is in Portuguese.

Keywords: IFRS, empirical finance, corporate finance, Brazilian Law 11638

JEL Classification: G32, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, Marcos and Flores, Eduardo and Martins, Clarice and Sampaio, Joelson Oliveira, Análise do Impacto do IFRS em Indicadores Financeiros em Empresas Brasileiras (Analysis of the Impact of IFRS Adoption on Financial Variables for Brazilian Companies) (April 5, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2591536 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2591536
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M T P Antunes , M C P Grecco , H Formigoni , O R Neto , De
A adoção no Brasil das normas internacionais de contabilidade IFRS: o processo e seus impactos na qualidade da informação contábil
Revista de Economia E Relações Internacionais , volume 10 , issue 20 , p. 5 - 19 Posted: 2012
F Aubert , G Grudnitski
The impact and importance of mandatory adoption of international financial reporting standards in Europe
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Ball , P R Brown
A retrospective. In Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 1968
Crossref
L P Barcellos , A H C Silva , J V Costa Junior , Da
Impactos da adoção das normas internacionais de contabilidade no Brasil: uma investigação no setor de siderurgia e metalurgia
Pensar Contábil , volume 14 , issue 54 , p. 4 - 14 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
375
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,700
RANK
181,383
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies