Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Asymmetry, Disclosure and Foreign Institutional Investment: An Empirical Investigation of the Impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 15-06

54 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2015 Last revised: 28 Nov 2015

Nida Abdioglu

Bandirma Onyedi Eylul University/ Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences

Vassiliki C. Bamiatzi

Independent

S. Tamer Cavusgil

Georgia State University

Arif Khurshed

University of Manchester - Manchester Business School, Division of Accounting Finance

Konstantinos Stathopoulos

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2015

Abstract

Do foreign institutional investors (FII) regard the introduction of rigorous disclosure requirements as a major incentive to invest in U.S. equities? We investigate the role of information asymmetry and the impact of firm-level disclosure on FII decisions. We use a unique context for analysis -- the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), and find that foreign institutional investors increase their equity holdings in U.S. listed firms following the passage of SOX. The increase in U.S. equity holdings is largely accounted by passive, non-monitoring FII, who have the most to gain from the SOX-led reduction in the value of private information.

Keywords: Institutional Foreign Investors, Information Asymmetry, Active and Passive Institutional Investors, Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Suggested Citation:

Abdioglu, Nida and Bamiatzi, Vassiliki C. and Cavusgil, S. Tamer and Khurshed, Arif and Stathopoulos, Konstantinos, Information Asymmetry, Disclosure and Foreign Institutional Investment: An Empirical Investigation of the Impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (January 1, 2015). Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 15-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2591256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2591256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P D Wysocki
Portfolio Preferences of Foreign Institutional Investors
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 29 , issue 12 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: dimensions and determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 65 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Ahmed , S Mcanally , M L Rasmussen , S Weaver , C D
How Costly is the Sarbanes Oxley Act? Evidence on the Effects of the Act on Corporate Profitability
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 352 - 369 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,571
RANK
336,300
2 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies