Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of International Accounting Research in U.S. Academic Accounting Journals, 1980 Through 1993

ACCOUNTING HORIZONS, Vol 10, No 1, March 1996

Posted: 3 Jul 1998

Jenice J. Prather-Kinsey

University of Alabama at Birmingham

Norlin Rueschhoff

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Abstract

This study analyzes the number and quality of international accounting research articles during the period 1980 through 1993 by using a multidimensional analysis of refereed, academic, U.S.-based accounting journals. International accounting academics are concerned about the number and quality of publication outlets for their research. As the publication outlets for international accounting research increase and the perceived status of these outlets improves, academics will more likely engage in international accounting research and publish results that will benefit the business and professional communities. A study of the trends in the number of articles, the research methods used, the international breadth of the research, the topics covered, and the extent of foreign authorship suggests that international accounting research has increased in quantity and quality. Results of the present study also imply the need for more studies addressing transnational business and international capital market issues.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Prather-Kinsey, Jenice J. and Rueschhoff, Norlin Gerhard, An Analysis of International Accounting Research in U.S. Academic Accounting Journals, 1980 Through 1993. ACCOUNTING HORIZONS, Vol 10, No 1, March 1996, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2592
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,983
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies