Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Provide Commensurate Benefits to Prospective European Union Countries?

Proceedings of Europe of Tomorrow: Creative, Digital, Integrated Conference, p. 317, May 2014

15 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2015

Jadranka Mrsik

University American College Skopje (UACS)

Ninko Kostovski

University American College Skopje (UACS)

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The common set of reporting standards allows for a unified business language when reporting on the financial status of businesses. Standards help to rise the quality of information and the comparability of financial statements. The understanding of financial statements is particularly important for the economies of prospective European Union countries, especially the smaller ones, because their growth is so dependent on the free movement of capital and extensive foreign direct investments. Researchers stress that even though the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are adopted by most of the developing countries, their business characteristics could limit their ability to accomplish expected benefits. Formal adoption does not necessarily lead towards unimpeded implementation. This paper presents the perceptions of Macedonian managers about IFRS acceptance. First, we survey, a representative sample of Chief Financial Officers from companies listed on the Macedonian stock exchange, and executives and analysts in investment and pension funds. Next, we compare the findings with the results of the similar survey presented in the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Reports 2011, on the attitudes of their counterparts in America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. Finally, we offer recommendations on the further implementation of standards in the prospective European Union countries, which in turn will help their inclusion into the overall economic, social and cultural trends of the Union.

Keywords: Financial reporting, International Financial Reporting Standards

Suggested Citation:

Mrsik, Jadranka and Kostovski, Ninko, Does the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Provide Commensurate Benefits to Prospective European Union Countries? (2014). Proceedings of Europe of Tomorrow: Creative, Digital, Integrated Conference, p. 317, May 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2594488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Associationofcharteredcertifiedaccountants
AssessingCFOandinvestor perspectivesonglobalreportingstandards.Retrievedon25.04 Posted: 2011
K H Baek
InternationalGAAPdifferences:Theimpactonforeign analysts
TheAccountingReview , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
R Ball
InternationalFinancialReportingStandards(IFRS):Prosandconsfor investors Posted: 2006
Crossref
Messod Daniel Beneish , Brian P. Miller , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Impact of Financial Reporting on Equity versus Debt Markets: Macroeconomic Evidence from Mandatory IFRS Adoption
Pages: 51 Posted: 18 May 2009 Last revised: 12 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,203
RANK
697,815
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies