Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Key Determinants of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption in Vietnam: An Institutional Perspective

PhD thesis submitted in fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, Swinburne University of Technology, 2014

433 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2015

Duc Phan

RMIT University Vietnam

Date Written: December 15, 2014

Abstract

Dr Phan's thesis examined key determinants of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption in Vietnam. IFRS are designed to be a single high quality set of global accounting standards. However, the relevance of IFRS to different countries with different institutional and legal environments is questionable. Different hypothesised structural models were tested using survey data of Vietnamese accountants' perceptions on IFRS. The findings reveal that Vietnam is not yet ready to embrace full adoption of IFRS as mandatory standards in the short-term. A five-year period for transition and preparation with many difficulties and obstacles associated with IFRS implementation is anticipated.

Keywords: Vietnam; IFRS; Adoption; Institutional boundaries; Isomorphism; Mandatory; Voluntary; SEM

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, G38

Suggested Citation:

Phan, Duc, Examining Key Determinants of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption in Vietnam: An Institutional Perspective (December 15, 2014). PhD thesis submitted in fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, Swinburne University of Technology, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2594563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
258 References
Abd-Elsalam , P Oh &amp; Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to an emerging capital market: relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H &amp; Adam , Do
Vietnamese Accounting Standards Contrasted to International Accounting Standards: Practice and Principals with Conversion Example
TA 4418-VIE: Capacity Building for new SME accounting system under VN GAAP Posted: 2007-06-18
A Adhikari , Tondkar
Environmental Factors Influencing Accounting Disclosure Requirements of Global Stock Exchanges
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 75 - 105
Crossref
R &amp; Aggarwal , Goodell
Financial markets versus institutions in European countries: Influence of culture and other national characteristics
International Business Review , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 502 - 520
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Duc Phan
Examining Key Determinants of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption in Vietnam: An Institutional Perspective
PhD thesis submitted in fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, Swinburne University of Technology, 2014 · 433 Pages · Posted: 17 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 647
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
647
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,499
RANK
93,694
1 Citations
258 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies