Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS Adoption on the Financial Activities of Companies in India: An Empirical Study

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 3, July 2014, pp. 25-36

Posted: 30 Apr 2015

Rahul Kamath

Independent

Ruchir Desai

Independent

Date Written: April 20, 2015

Abstract

With increasing globalization and integration of capital markets, the world is fast adopting a single language of financial reporting, i.e., International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). More than 100 countries have adopted IFRS and many others have given their consent to adopt IFRS in the near future. India is in line to converge with IFRS. This paper investigates the impact of IFRS adoption on financial activities of Indian companies by using a sample of eight companies for three years, 2010-11 to 2012-13. The study considers four areas of financial activity, i.e., financial risks, investment activities, operating activities and debt covenants. The results reveal that the financial indicators, investment activities and operating activities have been significantly affected by the adoption of IFRS, while financial risks and debt covenants fail to show a statistically significant impact.

Suggested Citation:

Kamath, Rahul and Desai, Ruchir, The Impact of IFRS Adoption on the Financial Activities of Companies in India: An Empirical Study (April 20, 2015). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 3, July 2014, pp. 25-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2596466
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,649
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies