Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Freedom, Investment Flexibility, and Equity Value: A Cross-Country Study

Forthcoming in The Accounting Review (September 2015)

51 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2015

Chih-Ying Chen

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Peter F. Chen

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Qinglu Jin

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: April 29, 2015

Abstract

Prior studies show that equity value has convex relations with earnings and book value of equity, respectively, due to growth and adaptation options (Burgstahler and Dichev 1997a; Zhang 2000). These studies, however, do not consider the role of institutions in affecting firms’ ability to exercise growth and adaptation options. In this study, we investigate whether these convex relations vary with the degree of a country’s economic freedom, which may influence the frictions and costs of exercising these options. We develop four hypotheses: In countries with greater economic freedom, (1) a firm’s capital investment in response to profitability is greater; (2) the relation between equity value and earnings, given equity book value, is more convex; (3) the relation between equity value and equity book value, given earnings, is more convex; and (4) the relation between stock return and profitability change is more convex. Using the index of economic freedom from the Fraser Institute, we test our hypotheses with data from 30 countries during the 2000–2010 period. The empirical results are consistent with these hypotheses. The effect of economic freedom that we document is distinct from the effects of GDP level and growth, legal origin, law enforcement, investor protection, and quality of accounting standards. Our results suggest that greater economic freedom enhances equity value through more efficient management of investment options.

Keywords: Economic freedom; Investment flexibility; Real options; Equity value.

JEL Classification: M41; N20

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Chih-Ying and Chen, Peter Fusheng and Jin, Qinglu, Economic Freedom, Investment Flexibility, and Equity Value: A Cross-Country Study (April 29, 2015). Forthcoming in The Accounting Review (September 2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2600402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
P Aghion , J Tirole
Formal and real authority in organizations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 105 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 1997
Crossref
G Baker , R Gibbons , K Murphy
Informal authority in organizations
Economics & Organization , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 73 Posted: 1999
Crossref
P Berger , E Ofek , I Swary
Investor valuation of the abandonment option
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 42 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S Bhojraj , C Lee , D Ng
International valuation using smart multiples. Working paper Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,489
RANK
229,292
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies