Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Integrated Reporting Matter to the Capital Market?

Abacus, 53 (1): 94-132

47 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2015 Last revised: 3 Mar 2017

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Wendy Green

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: May 24, 2016

Abstract

Integrated reporting (IR) is an emerging international corporate reporting initiative arising to address, inter alia, the limitations of the current corporate reporting suite which are commonly criticized for being both voluminous and disjointed. While IR is gaining in popularity, current momentum is limited until there is clear evidence of benefits. Utilising the most suitable setting currently available, being disclosures in accordance with the Johannesburg Stock Exchange IR listing requirements, this study provides evidence of such benefits by finding that analysts’ forecast error and dispersion reduces as the level of alignment with the IR framework increases. Further, the improved alignment is associated with a subsequent reduction in the cost of equity capital for certain reporting companies. The results are obtained after controlling for factors relating to financial transparency and the issue of standalone non-financial reports, suggesting that IR is providing incrementally useful information over existing reporting mechanisms to the capital market.

Keywords: Integrated Reporting, Cost of Equity Capital, framework, analyst forecast error and dispersion

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Shan and Simnett, Roger and Green, Wendy, Does Integrated Reporting Matter to the Capital Market? (May 24, 2016). Abacus, 53 (1): 94-132, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2600364 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2600364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
J R Agnew , L R Szykman
Asset Allocation and Information Overload: The Influence of Information Display, Asset Choice, and Investor Experience
Journal of Behavioral Finance , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 70 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B20
B20 Infrastructure & Investment Taskforce Policy Summary Posted: 2014-10
S Baiman , R Verrecchia
The Relation among Capital Markets, Financial Disclosure, Production Efficiency, and Insider Trading
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Crossref
O E Barron , C Kyle , T B O&apos;keefe
MD&A quality as measured by the SEC and analsyts' earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 109 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
12 Citations
Patrick Velte , Martin Stawinoga
Integrated reporting: The current state of empirical research, limitations and future research implications
Journal of Management Control , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 275 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Chiara Demartini , Sara Trucco
Integrated Reporting and Audit Quality
, p. 9 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Laura Mervelskemper , Daniel Streit
Enhancing Market Valuation of ESG Performance: Is Integrated Reporting Keeping its Promise?
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 536 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Carlos Martinez , Markus Schneider
Effects of CSR Performance and Amount of Material Information Disclosed on Analysts’ Forecast Accuracy
28 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2016 · Last revised: 5 Dec 2016 · Downloads: 275
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,645
RANK
41,853
12 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies