Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Viability of Enterprise Jurisdiction: A Case Study of the Big Four Accounting Firms

UC Davis Law Review, Forthcoming

Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 314

51 Pages Posted: 5 May 2015

Hannah L. Buxbaum

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: May 4, 2015

Abstract

One of the boundaries that U.S. courts must observe as they adjudicate regulatory disputes is the limit on their own jurisdictional authority — authority that is measured at the level of the particular forum state. Confronting the expansion of U.S. business activity from the local to the national scale during the second half of the twentieth century, courts consciously broadened jurisdictional standards to address the expanded activities of nationwide corporate groups. Today, by contrast, as the economy continues to expand from the national to the transnational scale, the U.S. Supreme Court has begun a retrenchment. In cases decided during the past several years, the Court has both restricted the basis for general jurisdiction over non-resident defendants and articulated a highly localized approach for assessing the availability of specific jurisdiction. This retrenchment opens a gap between the effectiveness of global enterprises in operating within the transnational space and the effectiveness of our courts in regulating their activity.

This Article investigates whether enterprise theory can provide a way to fill that gap. In general, jurisdictional analysis follows an entity approach: personal jurisdiction over a particular company within a corporate enterprise must be predicated on that company’s own contacts with the forum. Even the exceptions that courts have developed to this rule — for instance, using agency principles to attribute the contacts of one company to another, or using alter-ego principles to collapse the boundary between two companies — fit within the entity theory framework. Under an enterprise approach, by contrast, where the components of a group constitute a unitary business that operates as an integrated enterprise, the jurisdictional analysis would under certain circumstances take into account the forum contacts of the entire group.

Exactly how an enterprise-jurisdiction standard would operate remains unclear. Some gestures toward enterprise analysis can be seen in the case law, but they are typically under-explained and often confuse that analysis with more traditional entity-based approaches to jurisdictional attribution (an area that is itself widely viewed as a mess). Moreover, enterprise theory in general has been much criticized for its complexity and indeterminacy. At this point, then, many more questions have been raised than answered. Can certain enterprises — whether held together by ownership ties or other linkages — fairly be characterized as “unified,” and using what criteria? Are there circumstances under which the objectives underlying jurisdictional law would be better served by an approach considering enterprise-wide contacts? Would such an approach be consistent with the due process analysis articulated in the recent Supreme Court jurisprudence? The goal of this Article is to address these questions through an investigation of litigation involving the Big Four accounting firms. These enterprises, which operate as integrated multinational service providers but constitute networks of independently-owned offices, provide a useful case study that (1) assesses the feasibility of making accurate and predictable determinations that particular enterprises are unified and (2) illuminates the vagaries of current jurisdictional analysis relating to multinational enterprises. Through this study, the Article lends much-needed specificity to the analysis of enterprise jurisdiction and the consideration of its prospects.

Keywords: personal jurisdiction, accounting firms, Big Four, securities, agency

JEL Classification: K22, K41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Buxbaum, Hannah L., The Viability of Enterprise Jurisdiction: A Case Study of the Big Four Accounting Firms (May 4, 2015). UC Davis Law Review, Forthcoming, Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 314, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2602258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
Rouven Fleischer &amp; Max Goettsche , Audit Pricing
The Size Factor , volume 19 Posted: 2010-11-26
Press Release, Deloitte, Deloitte Grows for Fourth Consecutive Year , volume 32
Press Release , &amp; Ernst , Young , Reports
Global Revenues of US$25.8 Billion Posted: 2013-10-08
Transparency Kpmg Llp , Report
, volume 22 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,981
RANK
470,088
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies