Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Worldwide Application of IFRS 3, IAS 38 and IAS 36, Related Disclosures, and Determinants of Non-Compliance

ACCA Research Report 134

72 Pages Posted: 7 May 2015

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Dionysia Dionysiou

University of Stirling

Date Written: May 13, 2014

Abstract

This report investigates the accounting for, and information disclosed under, IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, and IAS 38 Intangible Assets, and examines compliance levels with the mandated disclosures and their determinants.

Keywords: IFRS 3, IAS 36, IAS 38, Disclosures, Compliance

Suggested Citation:

Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Andre, Paul and Dionysiou, Dionysia, Worldwide Application of IFRS 3, IAS 38 and IAS 36, Related Disclosures, and Determinants of Non-Compliance (May 13, 2014). ACCA Research Report 134, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2603572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
O Abd-Elsalam , P Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to an Emerging Capital Market: Relative Familiarity and Language Effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
O Abd-Elsalam , P Weetman
Measuring Accounting Disclosure in a Period of Complex Changes: The Case of Egypt
Advances in International Accounting , volume 20 , p. 75 - 104 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Bader Al-Shammari , Philip R. Brown , Ann Tarca
An Investigation of Compliance With International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council Member States
Pages: 49 Posted: 16 Feb 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Andrews
Impairment of Assets -Measurement Without Disclosure?
ACCA Research Report Posted: 2006-03-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,067
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,004
RANK
17,655
1 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies