Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of International Information Disclosure Requirements on Market Discipline

Posted: 8 May 2015

Pedro de Araujo

Colorado College

Kirby Leyshon

Colorado College

Date Written: May 6, 2015

Abstract

Financial regulators are challenged with finding the most efficient and effective ways to monitor banks given an expanding and complex international financial system. Market discipline has grown in importance as a way to discourage banks from taking on unnecessary risk (Barth et al., 2004; Nier & Baumann, 2006). One of the main drivers of market discipline is information disclosure. While the literature on market discipline is expansive, there are no known studies on the impact of individual information disclosure requirements on market discipline. Our study investigates which specific disclosure requirements influence financial investors to discipline banks and which do not. We find that more than half of the information disclosure requirements potentially reduce or have no impact on market discipline practices while the remaining requirements may enhance financial investors’ response to bank risk.

Keywords: Market Discipline, Information Disclosure, Bank Regulation

JEL Classification: G21, G14, E58

Suggested Citation:

de Araujo, Pedro and Leyshon, Kirby, The Impact of International Information Disclosure Requirements on Market Discipline (May 6, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2603750
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,235
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies