Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Institutional Accounting: Old Wine in New Bottles

10 Pages Posted: 8 May 2015 Last revised: 25 May 2015

Xing Huan

University College Dublin

Date Written: January 20, 2015

Abstract

Accounting has been regarded as a social and institutional practice, one that is intrinsic to, and constitutive of social relations, rather than derivative or secondary. The manner in which accounting has integrated with so many aspects of social and economic life has long been a continuing concern. Specific accounting events have been examined regarding their conditions of possibility and consequences. The expression “new institutional accounting” is used to capture research advances from the literatures of institutional economics and accounting on how the interactions of market forces, laws, regulations, standards, enforcement activities and other “institutions” affect corporate financial reporting and disclosure outcomes. Recent studies focus on the links between institutions and IFRS. One of the key objectives of the latest studies on IFRS adoption is to explore the differential impact of IFRS adoption across different types of firms and different institutional regimes. This paper explores the links between institutions and financial reporting outcomes with the focus on the links between institutions and IFRS adoption. The main argument proceeded in this paper is that the term “new institutional accounting” is coherent with the institutional nature of accounting while the word “new” denotes the new context in which such nature embeds. In other words, “new institutional accounting” is a new expression for the conventional knowledge about accounting. This new combination indicates an emphasis on the context associated with IFRS adoption, in which accounting is currently deployed.

Keywords: Institutional Accounting, IFRS Adoption

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Huan, Xing, New Institutional Accounting: Old Wine in New Bottles (January 20, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2603695 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2603695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research: International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in U.K. private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,050
RANK
618,773
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies