Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opportunistic Use of Accrual Earnings in Financial Reporting: A Study of BSE Listed Firms in India

7 Pages Posted: 15 May 2015

Chinmoy Roy

Tripura University

Pranesh Debnath

Tripura University

Date Written: May 15, 2015

Abstract

The study attempted to explore the role of discretionary accrual to conceal the actual earnings as a part of misapplication of flexible area in financial estimate in Indian BSE listed companies. As accruals have always provided a common opportunity to deceive financial statements users where the effect causes the financial statements not to be presented, in all material respects, and so along with the H&C (2002) model for total accruals, the most admired DeAngelo (1986) model has been applied for calculating discretionary accruals as part of the treatment for potential earnings management practices for the study. With the sample of BSE listed (industry wise) top 50 companies in India from 2010-2014, an attempt is made to investigate material misstatements issue with respect to industry classification on the basis of service and non-service sectors. It is found that the service sector industries are involve in income decreasing earnings management practices while non-service sector industries are in reverse practice. Apart from negative correlation between assets size of the firm and discretionary accruals. It is found that the entities of all sizes are susceptible with aberrant pattern and despite the fact that the large firms are engage in income decreasing earnings management practices, on the contrary the small firms are more likely involve in income increasing practices in financial reporting of service or non-service sector under which it is operating.

Keywords: Total Accrual, Discretionary Accrual, Earnings Management, Operating Cash Flow

Suggested Citation:

Roy, Chinmoy and Debnath, Pranesh, Opportunistic Use of Accrual Earnings in Financial Reporting: A Study of BSE Listed Firms in India (May 15, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2606506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2606506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
K Ahmed , J M Godfrey , N M Saleh
Market perceptions of discretionary accruals by debt renegotiating during economic downturn
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 43 , p. 114 - 138 Posted: 2008
Crossref
B C Ayers , J Jiang , P E Yeung
Discretionary accruals and earnings management: An analysis of pseudo earnings targets
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 617 - 652 Posted: 2006
Crossref
W R Baber , S H Kang , Y Li
Modeling Discretionary Accrual Reversal and the Balance sheet as an Earnings Management Consultant
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1189 - 1212 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,621
RANK
405,369
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies