Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Public Enforcement Work in Weak Investor Protection Countries? Evidence from China

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

62 Pages Posted: 17 May 2015 Last revised: 8 Oct 2020

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Xiaojun Zhang

Peking University

Date Written: July 24, 2020

Abstract

We examine the efficacy of public enforcement in weak investor protection countries by examining the outcomes of a comprehensive public enforcement campaign in China. The campaign, launched in 2007, was designed to help enforce China’s first mandatory Corporate Governance Code, issued in 2002. The 2007 campaign was characterized by several important features: (i) the campaign required firms to identify their problems before the securities regulators conducted on-site inspections; (ii) the campaign provided a detailed check-list of the status of a firm’s compliance with the Code; (iii) the campaign was transparent with regard to the disclosure and correction of identified problems; and (iv) the campaign threatened penalties for firms that failed to correct the identified governance problems in a timely manner. Our empirical analyses suggest that the 2007 campaign was effective in improving publicly listed firms’ corporate governance. The corporate governance improvement was associated with a reduction in earnings management, higher earnings response coefficients, and higher operating accounting performance. In addition, we find preliminary evidence that the detailed check-list is partially responsible for the efficacy of the campaign. Our results suggest that public enforcement, if properly implemented, works in increasing shareholder value in weak investor protection countries.

Keywords: public enforcement; weak investor protection countries; China; shareholder value

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Ke, Bin and Zhang, Xiaojun, Does Public Enforcement Work in Weak Investor Protection Countries? Evidence from China (July 24, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2606669 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2606669
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
F Allen , J Qian , M J Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J E Core , R W Holthausen , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, chief executive officer compensation, and firm performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,996
RANK
146,022
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies