Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Goodwill Impairment: International Evidence

54 Pages Posted: 22 May 2015 Last revised: 24 Jul 2015

Martin Glaum

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Sven Wyrwa

International School of Management ISM (Frankfurt)

Date Written: May 20, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates the determinants of firms’ decision to impair goodwill under IFRS. Our empirical analysis is based on data for the years 2005 to 2011 for 8,110 non-financial firm-years and 1,358 financial firm-years from 21 countries where firms apply IFRS. We specifically investigate which role national enforcement systems play for firms’ decisions whether or not to impair goodwill. We find that firms’ decisions are related to measures of performance, but also to proxies for managerial and firm-level incentives. We also find that goodwill impairment is associated with lagged stock-market return, suggesting that firms tend to delay necessary impairment. Further investigations reveal that the timeliness of goodwill impairment depends on the strength of national accounting and auditing enforcement systems: in countries with weak enforcement systems firms tend to delay necessary goodwill impairments, while firms in countries with strong enforcement systems tend to write off goodwill in a timely fashion, both before and after the Financial Crisis. However, even in countries with strict enforcement impairment decisions appear to be influenced by managerial and firm-level incentives, such as CEO reputation concerns and by management’s preferences for smooth earnings.

Keywords: IFRS, goodwill, impairment testing, timeliness, enforcement, managerial discretion

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, K2, K42, G3, G34

Suggested Citation:

Glaum, Martin and Landsman, Wayne R. and Wyrwa, Sven, Determinants of Goodwill Impairment: International Evidence (May 20, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2608425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2608425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Amiraslani , G E Iatridis , P Pope
Accounting for asset impairment: a test for IFRS compliance across Europe. Working paper, Cass Business School Posted: 2012
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,655
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,805
RANK
24,996
7 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies