Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Institutional Analysis of IFRS Adoption in Egypt: A Case Study of Loosely Coupled Rules and Routines

Research in Accounting in Emerging Economies, Vol. 10, p. 29, 2010

31 Pages Posted: 22 May 2015

Ahmed O. R. Kholeif

Edge Hill Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2008

Abstract

Purpose – This article examines a detailed case study of the symbolic use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) in an Egyptian state-owned company (AQF Co.) that is partially privatized by drawing on new institutional sociology (NIS) and its extensions. It explains how the ceremonial use of IFRSs is shaped by the interplay between institutionalized accounting practices, conflicting institutions, power relations, and the role of information technology (IT) in institutionalizing accounting rules and routines.

Methodology/approach – The research methodology is based on an intensive case study informed by NIS, especially the interplay between conflicting institutions, power relations, and IT role in institutionalizing accounting practice. Data were collected from multiple sources, including interviews, discussions, and documentary analysis.

Findings – The findings revealed that the company faced conflicting institutional demands from outside. The Central Agency for Accountability required the company to use the Uniform Accounting System (as a state-owned enterprise) and the Egyptian Capital Market Authority (CMA) required the company to use IFRSs (as a partially private sector company registered in the stock exchange). To meet these conflicting institutional demands, the company adopted loosely coupled accounting rules and routines and IT was used in institutionalizing existing Uniform Accounting System and preserving the status quo.

Research limitations – This study has limitations associated with its use of the case study method, including the inability to generalize from the findings of a single case study and the subjective interpretation by the researcher of the empirical data.

Practical implications – This article identifies that the interplay between institutional pressures, institutionalized accounting practices, intra-organizational power relations, and the role of IT in institutionalizing accounting routines contributed to the ceremonial use of IFRSs in an Egyptian state-owned enterprise. Understanding such relationships can help other organizations to become more aware of the factors affecting successful implementation and internalization of IFRSs and provide a better basis for planning the introduction of IFRSs into other organizations worldwide.

Originality/value of article – This article draws on recent research and thinking in sociology, especially the development and application of NIS. In addition, this article is concerned with the symbolic use of IFRSs in a transitional developing economy, Egypt, and hence contributes to debate about exporting Western accounting practices and other technologies to countries with different cultures and different stages of economic and political development

Keywords: IFRSs, developing countries, Egypt, new institutional sociology

Suggested Citation:

Kholeif, Ahmed O. R., A New Institutional Analysis of IFRS Adoption in Egypt: A Case Study of Loosely Coupled Rules and Routines (January 1, 2008). Research in Accounting in Emerging Economies, Vol. 10, p. 29, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2609057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Abayo , C Adams , C Roberts
Measuring the Quality of Corporate Disclosure in Less Developed Countries: the Case of Tanzania
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 2 , p. 145 - 158 Posted: 1993
Crossref
O H Abd-Elalam , P Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to An Emerging Capital Market: Relative Familiarity and Language Effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation , volume 12 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S R Barley , P S Tolbert
Institutionalization and Structuration: Studying the Links between Action and Institution
Organization Studies , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 117 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R J Briston , A El-Ashker
A. 'the Egyptian Accounting System: A Case Study in Western Influence
International Journal of Accounting, Education and Research , volume 19 , p. 129 - 155 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,965
RANK
357,528
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies