Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Accounting Research, Practice, and Financial Accountability

Abacus, Forthcoming

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-34

22 Pages Posted: 26 May 2015

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: May 25, 2015

Abstract

Financial accounting is essential to financial accountability, which is essential to a prosperous society. There are many examples of how improvements to financial accounting, supported by research, have enhanced financial accountability. Such research requires a strong relation between accounting academics and practice; this relation has ebbed and flowed during Abacus’s life. The relation seems to ebb when accounting academics embrace related fields and flows when the relevance to accounting practice emerges. Economics and finance have provided new perspectives and meaningful insights about the information investors need to make informed decisions. Regardless, there are many intriguing and open questions awaiting accounting research that can provide insights into how financial accounting — and thus financial accountability — can be improved. Thus, the future is bright for financial accounting researchers who do research relevant to accounting practice and want to contribute to a prosperous society.

Keywords: financial accounting, accounting research, accounting practice

JEL Classification: M40, D60, D80, F02

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E., Financial Accounting Research, Practice, and Financial Accountability (May 25, 2015). Abacus, Forthcoming, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2610429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
D Aboody
Market valuation of employee stock options
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 357 - 391 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
SFAS 123 stock-based compensation expense and equity market values
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2004
Crossref
D Aboody , R Kasznik
Executive stock-based compensation and firms' cash payout: The role of shareholders' tax-related payout preferences
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , p. 216 - 251 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,928
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,641
RANK
10,020
4 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies