Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Convergence to IFRS on the Accounting Quality in Mexico

23 Pages Posted: 29 May 2015

Carlos Martinez

Independent

Date Written: May 28, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the impact of the implementation of IFRS in the accounting quality of Mexican non-financial listed firms in both the convergence and adoption phases. I used two accounting quality measures, namely value-relevance and earnings management, in a cross-sectional design, comparing the original and restated accounting reports of 42 non-financial listed firms during the period of 2007 to 2009 and 33 of the same firms in 2010 and 2011. I found a decrease in earnings management that primarily stems from the convergence phase in the years 2008 and 2009. These results are relevant for investors interested in emerging markets as a portfolio diversification strategy and for firms listed in those stock markets. Particularly, an increase in transparency could lead to more tradability of stocks listed in the BMV, as potential foreign investors might see in the financial reports prepared under IFRS a tool that increases not only standardization and comparability, but also reliability of accounting information. To the best of my knowledge, this is the first study that documents the effects of each of the phases (convergence and full adoption) on an IFRS implementation process in emerging markets. In addition to this contribution, my results quantitatively support an explanation of Barth et al. (2008) for the mixed results reported in the IFRS adoption literature.

Keywords: IFRS, emerging markets, value-relevance, earnings management, accounting quality

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Carlos, The Impact of the Convergence to IFRS on the Accounting Quality in Mexico (May 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2611735 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2611735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,228
RANK
204,172
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies