Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of the IFRS Adoption in the Value-Relevance of Intangible Intensive Firms' Accounting Reports: Empirical Evidence from Latin America

21 Pages Posted: 29 May 2015

Carlos Martinez

Independent

Date Written: May 27, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of the IFRS adoption in the value-relevance of accounting reports, making stress upon the impact on intangible intensive firms. I operationalized value-relevance through a share price regression based on Ohlson’s (1995) model and used a sample of 304 firms from Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Peru for the period 2006-2013. I report two main findings. First, accounting reports have lost value-relevance after the IFRS adoption in the four countries researched. And second; after the IFRS adoption, the value-relevance for intangible intensive firms’ accounting information decreased in Brazil (which did not fully adopted IAS 38) but increased in Mexico. Although the period researched coincides with the global financial crisis (2009), I included research design features to mitigate this effect.

Keywords: value-relevance, IFRS, Latin America, emerging markets

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Carlos, Impact of the IFRS Adoption in the Value-Relevance of Intangible Intensive Firms' Accounting Reports: Empirical Evidence from Latin America (May 27, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2611304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2611304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,741
RANK
223,632
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies