Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividends and Foreign Performance Signaling

Multinational Finance Journal, Vol. 19, No. 2, p. 77-107, 2015

31 Pages Posted: 28 May 2015

Robert Joliet

IESEG School of Management Lille/Paris; French National Center for Scientific Research (CNRS) - Lille Economie & Management (LEM) UMR 9221

Aline Muller

HEC Management School University of Liège; Maastricht University - Limburg Institute of Financial Economics (LIFE)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 27, 2015

Abstract

This study uses Hines’ (1996) dividend process model to test the effect of domestic versus foreign profitability shocks on firms’ dividend payout policy. Investigating an international sample of 283 companies from Continental Europe, Australia, New Zealand, the U.S.A. and Canada, we find that increases in some foreign market earnings stimulate higher cash distributions than similar increases in domestic earnings. The disaggregation of foreign performance across country-specific markets reveals that managers are predominantly using dividends to signal foreign profit movements that have been generated in emerging markets and Asian Pacific developed markets – while they do not feel compelled to send signals related to positive earnings news originating from other mature developed markets (i.e. North America and Western Europe). The findings also confirm the popular view that due to their higher variance and lower persistence, positive foreign profitability shocks coming from emerging markets are more difficult to integrate into stable dividend policies.

Keywords: disclosure, dividend policy, multinational firm, disaggregation, emerging markets

JEL Classification: F23, M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Joliet, Robert and Muller, Aline, Dividends and Foreign Performance Signaling (May 27, 2015). Multinational Finance Journal, Vol. 19, No. 2, p. 77-107, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2611038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
R Aggarwal , Aung Kyaw , N
Capital structure, dividend policy and multinationality. Theory versus empirical evidence
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 140 - 150 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Aleksanyan , J Danbolt
Pricing and value relevance of geographical earnings: empirical evidence from the UK. Working paper Posted: 2005
Mohammed Alzahrani , Meziane Lasfer
The Impact of Taxation on Dividends: A Cross-Country Analysis
Pages: 42 Posted: 17 Feb 2009 Last revised: 24 Jun 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ambarish , K John , J Willams
Efficient signaling with dividends and investments
Journal of Finance , volume 42 , p. 321 - 343 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,859
RANK
199,553
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies