Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Foreign Aid Affect the Relationship between IFRS Adoption and Foreign Direct Investment?

African Governance and Development Institute Working Paper Series WP/15/014

36 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2015

Uchenna Efobi

Covenant University

Matthias Nnadi

Cranfield University - School of Management

Date Written: May 2015

Abstract

This paper constructs a theoretical model to explain the relationship between IFRS adoption, FDI and foreign aid. Using the SGMM estimation technique to check the issue of endogeneity and reverse causality, this relationship was examined on 92 countries for the period 2003-2012. Overall, IFRS adoption attracts more aid when conditioned on foreign aid; however, when disaggregating foreign aid, the effect of foreign aid on the nexus was contradictory, while multilateral aid flow was positive. This result remained consistent despite the battery of checks.

Keywords: Accounting Standards; Foreign Aid; Foreign Direct Investment; Globalisation; IFRS Adoption

Suggested Citation:

Efobi, Uchenna and Nnadi, Matthias, How Does Foreign Aid Affect the Relationship between IFRS Adoption and Foreign Direct Investment? (May 2015). African Governance and Development Institute Working Paper Series WP/15/014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2613810 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2613810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
The values in parenthesis are the probability values: they are presented at 1% '*', 5% '**' or 10%'***' levels of significance. The columns 'A' are for the models that include total aid in the estimation technique. Columns B and C are for the estimation models that includes multilateral aid and the bilateral component of aid, respectively.The 'Foreign Aid' variable included in the Table represents the three categories of aid. The coefficient of the total aid variable 'Foreign_Aid' are in columns A, while that of multilateral and bilateral aid are in columns B and C, respectively.The interaction variable contains the multiplicative between total foreign, multilateral and bilateral aid, and IFRS adoption. The coefficients of Foreign_Aid ×
The market structure variable, which represents the population of the country, was presented in its logged form
A Alesina , B Weder
Do Corrupt Governments Receive Less Foreign Aid?
American Economic Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 1126 - 1137 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Amiram
Financial Information Globalization and Foreign Investment Decisions
Journal of International Accounting Research: Fall , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 81 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Annageldy
Can Development Aid Help Promote Foreign Direct Investment? Evidence from Central Asia
Economic Affairs , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 136 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,828
RANK
441,817
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies