Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Material Information: A Cross-National Comparison

International Journal of Accounting Education and Research, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 1-16, Fall 1977

20 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2015 Last revised: 25 Jul 2015

H. Kent Baker

American University - Kogod School of Business

Robert H. Chenhall

Monash University - Department of Accounting

John A. Haslem

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business; University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Roger Juchau

Nepean College of Advanced Education - School of Business

Date Written: July 23, 2015

Abstract

Because of the exploratory nature of this study, the findings may not be truly representative of the average investor in the U.S. and Australia (AUS). Yet, several tentative conclusions are found as result of this cross-sectional comparison of investor needs and sources: (1) Although diversity exists among the rankings of information factors of U.S.and Australian investors, both groups show strong agreements on those items considered of great importance; (2) Information oriented toward present and future expectations is viewed as more important than past information in the rankings of information factors by U.S. and Australian investors; (3) Much information required by U.S. and Australian investors is not generated within the corporate report framework; (4) Individual U.S. and Australian investors place heavy reliance upon stockbrokers and advisory services; (5) Financial statements are a major source of information for Australian investors but are of little importance to U.S. investors.

Most importantly, statistical analysis reveals that the U.S. and Australian samples may be considered to be from the same population of investors with respect to several factors related to their information needs. The factors considered to be of great or moderate importance in both samples are as follows: (1) expected future increase in share price (investment objective rather than information need); (2) company future economic outlook; (3) current price earnings ratio; (4) past percentage growth in earnings per share; and (5) stability of earnings per share.

Other than investment objective, three of the remaining four factors are all measure of current or past performance. The statistical tests reveal that U.S. and Australian investors are more homogeneous with respect to current and past information factors than to future factors. However, as noted previously, they tend to rank present and future factors as more important than past factors.

These factors have important implications regarding the adequacy of information disclosed in U.S and Australian financial statements. For example, current disclosure within financial statements does not appear adequate to meet the information needs of individual investors. Considering that other user groups, such as security analysts, have different information needs, the adequacy of current disclosure is even more questionable. Although accounting information cannot fill all needs of users, additional attention in both the U.S. and Australia should be given to providing information that is material to user needs--information beyond traditional corporate financial statements. However, based on the results of this study, the information needs of U.S and Australian investors are frequently different. This is especially so when only the factors perceived by both investor groups to be of great or moderate importance are included.

Suggested Citation:

Baker, H. Kent and Chenhall, Robert H. and Haslem, John A. and Haslem, John A. and Juchau, Roger, Disclosure of Material Information: A Cross-National Comparison (July 23, 2015). International Journal of Accounting Education and Research, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 1-16, Fall 1977 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2614537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,869
RANK
534,865
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies