Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservatism Analysis on Indian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

International Journal of Multidisciplinary Research and Development, Volume 2, Issue 5, May 2015

20 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2015

Vincent Tawiah

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; Griffith University; University of Cape Coast; Dublin City University Business School

Muhaheranwa Benjamin

Maharishi Markendeshwar Group of Institution - Maharishi Markandeshwar University (MMU)

Date Written: April 25, 2015

Abstract

The quality of accounting information is the basic objective every accounting standards aims to achieve. It is therefore essential to found out the level of conservative and prudence between Indian GAAP (AS) and Ind.AS (IFRS).

This study has measured the accounting information quality between AS and Ind.AS (IFRS) by using Gray’s Index of Conservatism (GIC) on 5 years consolidated financial statement. F-test and T-test were used to test the hypothesis.

It was found that IFRS provides current and quality information on liquidity ratios than AS reporting. However there was a mix results on the quality of accounting information on leverage.

In general all the profitability ratios GIC signify that, the computed ratios of AS are higher than IFRS ratio in both companies inferring that IFRS is conservative and prudent in profitability reporting, hence accounting information on profitability ratio per IFRS is quality than AS ratios. The hypothesis testing results indicates that averagely the impact of IFRS adoption have similar impact on accounting ratio of both companies but at different timings.

The study therefore concludes that Ind.AS will provide current and quality accounting information on accounting ratios but the quality level will not be same over the years.

Keywords: AS GIC, Ind.AS, IFRS

JEL Classification: IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Tawiah, Vincent and Tawiah, Vincent and Benjamin, Muhaheranwa, Conservatism Analysis on Indian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) (April 25, 2015). International Journal of Multidisciplinary Research and Development, Volume 2, Issue 5, May 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2615335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Indian Accounting Standards -A Perspective Posted: 2012
C A Adams , P Weetman , S J Gray
Reconciling National with International Accounting Standards: Lessons from a study of Finnish Corporate Reports
European Accounting Review , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 471 - 494 Posted: 1993
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Basu
Discussion of Conditional and Unconditional Conservatism; Concepts and Modelling
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,260
RANK
133,571
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies