Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigation of U.S. Home Bias in the Valuation of Canadian Natural Resource Firms: Choice of Reporting and Transaction Currency

Multinational Finance Journal, Vol. 17, No. 3/4, p. 201-241, 2013

41 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2015

Wendy Rotenberg

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 17, 2015

Abstract

This study explores whether the valuation of Canadian natural resource firms is related to their decisions to present financial reports in U.S. dollars or to allow dual currency (Canadian and U.S. dollar) trades of their shares in Canadian markets. The results indicate that firms electing to report their financial results in U.S. dollars do enjoy a higher proportion of U.S. trades, and a higher market value, compared with firms reporting in domestic currency. These findings are consistent with U.S. dollar reporting reducing the behavioral phenomenon known as “home bias”, for U.S. investors. In contrast, giving investors the opportunity to transact in U.S. dollars in Canada does not appear to have a beneficial impact. This latter finding is consistent with the practical observation that very few Canadian firms adopted dual currency trading. The dual currency trading experiment on the TSX appears to have failed.

Keywords: home bias, dual currency trading, reporting currency, natural resource firms

Suggested Citation:

Rotenberg, Wendy, Mitigation of U.S. Home Bias in the Valuation of Canadian Natural Resource Firms: Choice of Reporting and Transaction Currency (June 17, 2015). Multinational Finance Journal, Vol. 17, No. 3/4, p. 201-241, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2619665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
U S Trading , Higher Tobin&apos;s Q
As the reporting currency decision is not costly, the implication is that Canadian firms have an incentive to report in U.S. dollars to capture related benefits. In contrast, the finding that U.S. dollar trading in the shares of the firm on Canadian markets was not associated with beneficial effects is consistent with the practical observation that the U.S. dollar trading experiment for common shares was short-lived in Canada. Few firms participated in the experiment and those that did abandoned it after just a few years
This finding suggests that U.S. dollar reporting reduces the behavioral phenomenon known as "home bias Posted: 2007-05
D References Amiram
Financial Information Globalization and Foreign Investment Decisions
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 81 Posted: 2012
John Matthew Ammer , Sara B. Holland , David Carl Smith , Francis E. Warnock
Why Do U.S. Cross-Listings Matter?
FRB International Finance Discussion Paper No. 930 Pages: 38 Posted: 16 Jun 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Amoako-Adu , B Smith
Relative Prices of Dual-Class Shares
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , issue 30 , p. 223 - 239 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,230
RANK
564,240
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies