Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Religiosity and Risk-Taking in International Banking

Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance, Volume 7, 2015

46 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2015 Last revised: 1 Mar 2017

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Chong Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dennis J. Whalen

Otterbein College - Department of Business, Accounting & Economics

Abstract

We examine the relationship between religiosity and risk-taking in the international banking sector. Previous research indicates that individuals who are more religious have greater risk aversion. Additionally, prior literature documents a positive relation between religiosity and both financial accounting transparency and timely recognition of bad news. Given timely recognition of future loan losses, religiosity could constrain excessive risk-taking through enhanced internal and external monitoring. We hypothesize and find that banks located in more religious countries exhibit lower levels of risk in their decision-making. We also demonstrate that banks in more religious countries were less likely to encounter financial difficulty or fail during the 2007-2009 financial crisis.

Keywords: Religion, Risk-Taking, Banking, Financial Crisis, Financial Trouble

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G31, M1

Suggested Citation:

Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lobo, Gerald J. and Wang, Chong and Whalen, Dennis, Religiosity and Risk-Taking in International Banking. Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance, Volume 7, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2621276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2621276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,998
RANK
364,553
3 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies