Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Financial Information: State of the Art and Research Perspectives Based on a Bibliometric Study

Comptabilité - Contrôle - Audit (Accounting, Auditing and Control), Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2015 Last revised: 15 Aug 2015

Michael H.R. Erkens

Nyenrode Business University; Erasmus School of Economics; Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM)

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: June 28, 2015

Abstract

We conduct a bibliometric analysis of academic articles published on the topic on non-financial information (NFI). We analyze 787 articles published in 53 journals over the timespan 1973 to 2013. We examine several important questions about the state of the art of academic research on NFI: How is NFI defined in the literature? Can NFI be precisely defined? How has the interest for NFI evolved over time in the academic literature? What are the main topics covered by NFI research? What are the main methodologies used by researchers? To what extent are studies country-specific? We find that many articles do not define the notion of NFI but refer to underlying concepts such as social, environmental, human capital or corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting. We document that academic research on NFI has reached a certain degree of maturity around the end of the 1990s/beginning on the 2000s. Several new specialized journals that now capture an important share of the market were created around that time. We find 10 topics covered by research on NFI and show that the most frequent topic studied in NFI research is CSR reporting. We also discover that the volume of research on auditing of NFI is growing whereas management accounting/control research on NFI is relatively limited. We find that the growth of research on NFI is fueled by articles relying on archival (whether quantitative or qualitative) and essay methodologies. Finally, we suggest directions for future research.

Keywords: Non-financial information (NFI), corporate social responsibility (CSR), intellectual capital, environmental reporting, social reporting, literature review, bibliometrics

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Erkens, Michael H.R. and Paugam, Luc and Stolowy, Hervé, Non-Financial Information: State of the Art and Research Perspectives Based on a Bibliometric Study (June 28, 2015). Comptabilité - Contrôle - Audit (Accounting, Auditing and Control), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2624306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
162 References
I Abeysekera
Intellectual capital practices of firms and the commodification of labour
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 36 - 48 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Abhayawansa , J Guthrie
Intellectual capital and the capital market: A review and synthesis
Journal of Human Resource Costing & Accounting , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 196 - 226 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S A Abhayawansa
A review of guidelines and frameworks on external reporting of intellectual capital
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 100 - 141 Posted: 2014
M Adams
Ritualism, opportunism and corporate disclosure in the New Zealand life insurance industry: Field evidence
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 10 , issue 5 , p. 718 - 734 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Ahmed Abdelnaby Diab
Assurance of Integrated Reports: An Exploratory Study From Egypt
Diab, A. A. & Abd-Elazim, S. I (2018). Assurance of integrated reports: An exploratory study from Egypt. مجلة الدراسات المالیة والتجاریة, 28(2), 40-68. doi: 10.21608/mosj.2018.89942., · 29 Pages · Posted: 15 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 94
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Diane-Laure Arjaliès , Vincent Bouchet , Patricia Crifo , Nicolas Mottis
La mesure d'impact et l'Investissement Socialement Responsable (ISR): Un tour d'horizon (Impact Measurement and Socially Responsible Investing (SRI): An Overview)
La mesure d’impact et l’Investissement Socialement Responsable (ISR): Un tour d’horizon, in Tchotourian E., Bres L. and Geelhand de Merxem L. (Eds.), Zone frontières et entreprise socialement responsable – Perspective multiple: droit, administration et éthique, Edition Yvon Blais (Canada) and Mare &, · 37 Pages · Posted: 29 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 722
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jonida Carungu , Roberto Di Pietra , Matteo Molinari
Mandatory vs Voluntary Exercise on Non-financial Reporting: Does a Normative/coercive Isomorphism Facilitate an Increase in Quality?
https://doi.org/10.1108/MEDAR-08-2019-0540 · Posted: 1 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 2 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
532
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,967
RANK
120,303
3 Citations
162 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies