Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Infrastructure and IFRS Adoption: 'The Nigerian Factors'

Posted: 7 Jul 2015

Igbekele Sunday Osinubi

University of East London

Date Written: June 28, 2015

Abstract

This paper discusses the peculiarities of Nigerian financial reporting environment. The paper argues that implementation of adopted IFRS is crucial to comparability of financial statements across the world and that it is futile to implant exogenously developed accounting standards into Nigerian financial reporting environment without first addressing the peculiarities of the nation’s institutional infrastructure that militates against quality disclosure. The paper further argues that encouraging companies to attach the IFRS label to what are in fact low quality financial statements dilutes the IASC brand name and has unintended consequences of reducing the quality financial reporting worldwide.

The paper recommends that government should reduce interference in the appointment of board and council members and operations of regulatory enforcement agencies in order to enhance the autonomy and independence of these agencies. The paper further recommends that Nigeria corporate entities should be encouraged to list on the Stock Exchanges in London and New York where the risk of litigation is high if managers fail to disclose material information. This could be a more credible way of signalling information quality by corporate organisations in Nigeria. The paper further recommends that the FRC needs to collaborate with both higher educational institutions and professional accounting bodies in the provision of training to improve the skills of those involve in the preparation of financial statements. This could involve making funds available and assessable to those who would not otherwise have been able to undergo training in financial reporting.

The paper contributes to enhancing international investors’ decision about investing in Nigerian capital market. The paper also contributes to enhancing our understanding of the institutional contexts of financial reporting and thus makes informed judgements when comparing financial statements from different nations that have adopted IFRS. The paper also contributes to the literature on accounting and reporting practices and provides guidance for policy makers on essential institutional features that should be the focus of attention if it desires to increase the quality of corporate financial reporting practices and thus enhanced the inflow of foreign direct investment.

Keywords: Nigeria, Regulation, IFRS, Accounting Infrastructure, Enforcement

JEL Classification: G28, M41, M48, N20, P41, P48

Suggested Citation:

Osinubi, Igbekele Sunday, Accounting Infrastructure and IFRS Adoption: 'The Nigerian Factors' (June 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2624363
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies