Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Life Insurers' Embedded Value Disclosure and Implications for IFRS 4 Phase II

Munich Risk and Insurance Center Working Paper No. 27

50 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2015 Last revised: 9 Jul 2015

Tobias Gerstner

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Dominik Lohmaier

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Andreas Richter

Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) - Faculty of Business Administration (Munich School of Management)

Date Written: July 6, 2015

Abstract

Many insurers disclose Embedded Value reports, a 'capital market-consistent' valuation framework for their life insurance business, to provide investors with additional information. We examine the incremental and relative information content of Embedded Value components in comparison to the existing mandatory accounting standards. Our findings can help to predict the capital market effects of the new insurance accounting standard IFRS 4 Phase II, which will be introduced in 2018 and is based on similar principles as the EV framework. Our results show that the incremental information content of the EV framework is limited and even decreasing since 2009. The current IFRS framework seem to have more explanatory power for insurers' stock prices and returns in the current economic environment which casts doubt about benefits of IFRS 4 Phase II. Our comprehensive analysis of the incremental value relevance of EV and EV earnings subcomponents shows that investors would profit from an explicit valuation of options and guarantees and a presentation scheme of earnings which differentiates between inforce and new business.

Keywords: Life Insurance, Embededded Value, Value Relevance

JEL Classification: G22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gerstner, Tobias and Lohmaier, Dominik and Richter, Andreas, Value Relevance of Life Insurers' Embedded Value Disclosure and Implications for IFRS 4 Phase II (July 6, 2015). Munich Risk and Insurance Center Working Paper No. 27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2627240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
***
Crossref
J Aigrain
How do we square the circle between accounting and solvency. The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance -Issues and Practice , volume 34 , p. 42 - 46 Posted: 2009
H Akaike
A new look at the statistical model identification. Automatic Control
IEEE Transactions on , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 716 - 723 Posted: 1974
Crossref
M Almezweq , G Liu
The value relevance of voluntary European embedded value disclosures: Evidence from UK life insurance companies
International Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 343 - 366 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,544
RANK
160,765
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies