Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Mandatory Disclosures in Malaysia: The Influence of Family Control and the Value (Ir)Relevance of Compliance Levels

Accounting Forum, Volume 39, Issue 4, Pages 239-370, 2015

Posted: 17 Jul 2015 Last revised: 21 Mar 2016

Mazni Abdullah

University of Malaya (UM)

Lisa Evans

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ian A.M. Fraser

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Date Written: July 7, 2015

Abstract

We examine the effect of family control on IFRS mandatory disclosure levels, and the valuation implications of these disclosure levels, for Malaysian companies. We find that family control is related negatively to disclosure and that compliance levels are not value relevant. These findings suggest that agency theory predictions and theories linking common law legal systems to high quality financial reporting require refining in certain national contexts. Where Type 2 agency problems dominate, institutional arrangements intended to enhance financial reporting quality aimed at mitigating Type 1 problems in developed markets may have limited effect in less developed jurisdictions.

Keywords: Compliance, Corporate governance, Culture, Family control, IFRS, Malaysia, Mandatory disclosures

JEL Classification: M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Abdullah, Mazni and Evans, Lisa and Fraser, Ian A.M. and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis, IFRS Mandatory Disclosures in Malaysia: The Influence of Family Control and the Value (Ir)Relevance of Compliance Levels (July 7, 2015). Accounting Forum, Volume 39, Issue 4, Pages 239-370, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2627605
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,184
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies