Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Financing by the Industrial Sector Increases Competition in the Domestic Banking Sector

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 15-23

51 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2015

Sudarshan Jayaraman

Simon Business School, University of Rochester; University of Rochester - Simon Business School

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: July 11, 2015

Abstract

We predict that access to cross-border financing by the industrial sector reduces firms’ reliance on domestic banks, thereby leading to lower rents for banks and greater competition in the domestic banking sector. We also predict that banks take on more risk to offset these lost rents and remain competitive. Using mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to identify variation in cross-border financing, we find evidence consistent with our hypotheses. Additional tests verify that the effects emanate from the demand-side (i.e., firms not relying on banks) rather than the supply-side (i.e., banks not willing to lend to firms). Overall, we document how competition from overseas financial markets influences the domestic banking sector.

Keywords: Bank competition, cross border financing, foreign portfolio investment, bank risk taking

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Kothari, S.P., Cross-Border Financing by the Industrial Sector Increases Competition in the Domestic Banking Sector (July 11, 2015). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 15-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2629499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
J Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank Regulation and Supervision: A New Database
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services Posted: 2001
J Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank supervision and regulation: what works best
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 13 , p. 205 - 248 Posted: 2004
M E Barth , D Israeli
Disentangling Mandatory IFRS Reporting and Changes in Enforcement
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 178 - 188 Posted: 2013
Crossref
T; A Beck , R Demirguc-Kunt , Levine
Bank concentration, competition, and crises: First results
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1581 - 1603 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,983
RANK
277,436
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies