Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Controlling for Non-Governmental Organisations – the International Perspective

"European Integration in the Fields of Research – Economic Impact", eds. Joanna Dyczkowska, Tomasz Dyczkowski, Andrzej Kardasz, Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu Ekonomicznego we Wrocławiu, 2010, ISBN 978-83-7695-062-4, (pp. 103-117)

15 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2015

Tomasz Dyczkowski

Wroclaw University of Economics

Date Written: October 1, 2010

Abstract

Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) do not consider results of their activities as a priority. Yet these results are much more important – and, at the same time, far more difficult to measure and control – for this group of organisations than for profit-oriented ones. This situation stems from: increasing dynamism of environment where NGOs operate, competition for resources – material, financial and human – with public, commercial or other non-profit oriented entities and growing interest of donors in efficient management of resources.

For NGOs possibilities to use their potential depend a lot on attitude towards control. Control activities provide these organisations with invaluable information about their internal and external environment, helping managers to rationalise decision-making processes.

This paper intends to outline major findings of the author in the aforementioned area, which should help to prove that NGOs are capable to fulfill their social tasks more efficiently than companies or public institutions if use sound management practices.

The main objective of the discussed research was to demonstrate, by example of solutions applied in NGOs operating in the European environment, that it is both rational and profitable to apply controlling methodology, which helps to assess and report economic situation of NGOs in a reliable way.

The study proves that if information acquired by controlling systems helps managers of NGOs to increase efficiency of operations, to allocate resources adequately and to derive optimal benefits from donations or involvement of volunteers and employees, such organisations become the most welcomed, in the economic sense, providers of social services.

Keywords: charity, controlling system, financial information, non-governmental organisations, public benefits, ratio system

JEL Classification: L31, M19, M49

Suggested Citation:

Dyczkowski, Tomasz, Controlling for Non-Governmental Organisations – the International Perspective (October 1, 2010). "European Integration in the Fields of Research – Economic Impact", eds. Joanna Dyczkowska, Tomasz Dyczkowski, Andrzej Kardasz, Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu Ekonomicznego we Wrocławiu, 2010, ISBN 978-83-7695-062-4, (pp. 103-117), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2633102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Annual Report, Charity Commission Posted: 1991
Crossref
P F Drucker
Managing the Non-Profit Organization Posted: 1997
Crossref
L M Salamon
Global Civil Society. An Overview Posted: 2003
Einrichtungen und Dienste der Freien Wohlfahrtspflege. Gesamtstatistik Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
RANK
627,303
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies