Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Similar Accounting Standards in Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2015

Jere R. Francis

University of Missouri

Shawn X. Huang

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: July 22, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates whether differences in accounting standards across countries create information costs that inhibit firms from investing in foreign markets. Using the frequency and dollar magnitude of cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&A) from 32 countries over the period 1998-2004, we find that the aggregate volume of M&A activity across country pairs is larger for pairs of countries with similar Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), and that this increased volume of M&A activity is driven by target countries that also have strong enforcement. We also find that the 2005 mandatory adoption of IFRS attracted more cross-border M&As among IFRS adopting countries, and that this increase in M&A activity within the IFRS countries is more pronounced for country pairs with low similarity in GAAP in the pre-IFRS adoption period. Overall, our results highlight the role of accounting standards and enforcement in shaping cross-border M&A activity.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, Cross-border Investments, Mergers and Acquisitions, Mandatory IFRS Adoption

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Jere R. and Huang, Shawn X. and Khurana, Inder, The Role of Similar Accounting Standards in Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions (July 22, 2015). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2634602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Ali , L Hwang
Country specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Alti
How sensitive is investment to cash flow when financing is frictionless
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 707 - 722 Posted: 2003
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
11 Citations
Georgios Georgakopoulos , Dimitrios Gounopoulos , Chen Huang , Victoria Patsika
The impact of IFRS adoption on IPO management earnings forecasts in Australia
Forthcoming: International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation · 51 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2013 · Last revised: 21 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 722
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Justin Chircop , Monika Tarsalewska
10-K Filing Length and M&A Returns
The European Journal of Finance, Forthcoming · 57 Pages · Posted: 23 Oct 2015 · Last revised: 22 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 304
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hector Fabio Perafan-Peña , Belen Gill de Albornoz Noguer , Begoña Giner Inchausti
Earnings Management of Target Firms and Deal Premiums: The Role of Industry Relatedness
59 Pages · Posted: 14 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 17 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 249
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nargess Golshan , Inder Khurana , Felipe Bastos G. Silva
Financial Transparency, Labor Productivity, and Real Wages
Journal of International Accounting Research (forthcoming) · 46 Pages · Posted: 1 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 19 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 197
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,133
RANK
130,651
11 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies