Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Cross-Border and Domestic Bidding Firms Perform Differently? New Evidence from Continental Europe and the UK

57 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2015

Miroslav Mateev

American University in Bulgaria - Business and Economics Department; American University in the Emirates

Kristiyan Andonov

Protrade Mega Group Ltd.

Date Written: April 28, 2015

Abstract

In this paper we investigate the main features of the domestic and cross-border corporate acquisitions involving 38 European countries in the period 2003-2010. The analysis is based on characteristics of takeover transactions such as the type of transaction, relative value of the deal, payment method, legal status of the target firm, and activity relatedness, amongst other factors. In addition, we investigate the short-term wealth effects of 2,821 European mergers and acquisitions initiated by large and medium-sized European public firms. We find that, upon announcement, domestic acquiring firms earn higher abnormal returns than cross-border bidders. Our findings are in line with those reported on the US market and are robust when we control for different bid and firm characteristics. Moreover, we find that bidding firm’s shareholders gain more in equity offers than in cash offers whether the acquisition is cross-border or domestic. When a Continental European target is involved, the bidder abnormal returns are higher than those of bids involving a UK or Irish target. We observe that cross-border bidding firms tend to experience lower announcement returns if target firms are located in countries with strong investor protection mechanisms. That is, bidding firms from Continental Europe must compensate target firm shareholders (i.e., pay higher premiums) if the quality of the corporate governance is reduced.

Keywords: mergers and acquisitions, domestic and cross-border takeovers, bidder gain, corporate governance, investor protection

JEL Classification: F23, G14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Mateev, Miroslav and Mateev, Miroslav and Andonov, Kristiyan, Do Cross-Border and Domestic Bidding Firms Perform Differently? New Evidence from Continental Europe and the UK (April 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2636515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2636515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
RANK
534,865
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies