Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in Bangladesh: Benefits and Challenges

IOSR Journal of Business and Management, Volume 17, Issue 8.Ver. I (Aug. 2015), PP 16-24

9 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2015

Mohammad Hossain

Uttara University, Bangladesh

Md. Hasan

Uttara University, Bangladesh

Mohammad Safiuddin

Uttara University

Date Written: August 2, 2015

Abstract

The study focuses on the recent adoption status of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in a developing economy like Bangladesh. The objectives of this paper are to identify the development of the accounting profession in Bangladesh, the legal and regulatory framework of accounting, IFRS adoption process, benefits and challenges of adopting IFRS in Bangladesh. The study is purely based on the information from prior works of literature and secondary data sources. IFRS adoption promises a lot of benefits like decreased cost of capital, improved financial reporting quality, increased ability to secure borders-listing, better Access to Global Capital Markets and attraction of foreign direct investment, etc. Some challenges also exist like the development of a legal and regulatory framework, low audit fees, awareness campaign and training of personnel etc. which must be overcome for successful adoption of IAS/IFRS. The paper also argues that the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), as proposed Financial Reporting Act 2015 (FRA) should not be handled by non-experts body. This paper strongly recommends that the ICAB council may be reformed consisting of Three Board - (i) Accounting Standard Board, (ii) Auditing Standard Board and (iii) Financial Reports Review Board to ensure compliance of international standard and effective implementation.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, Adoption, benefits and challenges, ICAB, Bangladesh.

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Mohammad and Hasan, Md. and Safiuddin, Mohammad, Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in Bangladesh: Benefits and Challenges (August 2, 2015). IOSR Journal of Business and Management, Volume 17, Issue 8.Ver. I (Aug. 2015), PP 16-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2638845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
G S Tomaszewski , S Showerman , In
the United States: Challenges and Opportunities , volume 30 , p. 59 - 71 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J R Edwards , Accounting
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Posted: 2009
Crossref
O Adekoya , Similarities , Differences , Gaap Nigerian
Posted: 2011
B Epstein
The economic effects of IFRS adoption
The CPA Journal , p. 26 - 31 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,153
RANK
44,983
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies