Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices of MNC Subsidiaries and Cross-Listed Firms: An Institutional Environment Perspective

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 14, No. 3, pp. 48-71, 2015

25 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2015

Pankaj M. Madhani

Former Dean (Academics) & Professor

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Corporate governance and disclosure practices of listed firms having global exposure, such as subsidiaries of Multinational Corporations (MNCs) as well as domestic cross listed firms, are different from firms having only domestic exposure. Domestic listed firms are listed only in the home country and are governed by the local environment of their home country. However, this may not be the case for globally-exposed firms as they are governed by the institutional, legal and regulatory environment of home country as well as the host country where they are listed. This study seeks to identify whether corporate governance and disclosure practices of MNC subsidiaries and cross-listed firms are significantly different, by studying a sample of firms listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange, India, comprising MNC subsidiaries listed in India as well as cross-listed firms listed in the US/Europe. The research provides insight into the question of how a country’s institutional, legal and regulatory environment may influence the effectiveness of firm-level corporate governance mechanisms. The findings shed light on the governance and disclosure practices of MNC subsidiaries and cross listed firms, in the legal institutional environment of India versus US/Europe.

Keywords: corporate governance, MNC, BSE, cross-listing

Suggested Citation:

Madhani, Pankaj M., Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices of MNC Subsidiaries and Cross-Listed Firms: An Institutional Environment Perspective (2015). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 14, No. 3, pp. 48-71, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2640547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
G Alpay , M Bodur , H Ener , C Talug
Comparing Board-Level Governance at MNEs and Local Firms: Lessons from Turkey
Journal of International Management , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 86 Posted: 2005
Crossref
H K Baker , J Nofsinger , D G Weaver
International Cross-Listing and Visibility
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 521 Posted: 2002
Crossref
W Beekes , P Brown
Do Better-Governed Australian Firms Make More Informative Disclosures?
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 33 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 422 - 450 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R G Bell , Filatotchev I Rasheed , A A
The Liability of Foreignness in Capital Markets: Sources and Remedies
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 122 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,979
RANK
247,257
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies