Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Disclosure of Foreign Subsidiaries and International Tax Avoidance

37 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2015 Last revised: 5 Nov 2016

Tanja Herbert

University of Cologne

Pia Olligs

University of Cologne

Michael Overesch

Universität zu Köln

Date Written: October 2016

Abstract

Our study analyzes the relationship between public disclosure of group structures in Exhibit 21 and international tax avoidance of U.S. multinational firms. Several U.S. multinational enterprises have removed a substantial number of foreign subsidiaries from their Exhibit 21 since 2010. Our analysis suggests that firms that decided to substantially reduce the number of foreign subsidiaries disclosed in their Exhibit 21 avoid significantly more taxes compared to firms that did not change disclosure.

Keywords: Effective Tax Rate, Tax Avoidance, Public Disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H26

Suggested Citation:

Herbert, Tanja and Olligs, Pia and Overesch, Michael, Public Disclosure of Foreign Subsidiaries and International Tax Avoidance (October 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2640552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2640552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
which the firms that substantially changed disclosure of foreign subsidiaries reported at least one subsidiary in their Exhibit 21. Pre-Change Year (Change Year) refers to the number of firms that reported at least one subsidiary in the respective country according to their
B Augurzky , C M Schmidt
The Propensity Score: A Means to An End Posted: 2001
P C Austin
Optimal Caliper Widths for Propensity-Score Matching when Estimating Differences in Means and Differences in Proportions in Observational Studies
Pharmaceutical Statistics , volume 10 , p. 150 - 161 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B A Badertscher , S P Katz , S O Rego
The Separation of Ownership and Control and Corporate Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 228 - 250 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
670
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,673
RANK
89,516
5 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies