Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Improvements in Institutional Oversight on IFRS Accrual Quality in Europe

Kabir, H. and Laswad, H. The Impact of Improvements in Institutional Oversight on IFRS Accrual Quality in Europe. Australian Accounting Review. Forthcoming.

40 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2015

Humayun Kabir

Auckland University of Technology

Fawzi Laswad

Massey University

Date Written: August 12, 2014

Abstract

This study examines the impact of improvements in institutional oversight specifically for compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on accrual quality in Europe. The sample comprises 9339 firm-year observations from a treatment sample of three European countries that had either non-existent or relatively weak institutional oversight systems at the start of the sample period 2006-10 but improved their oversight systems thereafter, and a benchmark sample of six other European countries that had institutional oversight systems from the start of this sample period. After controlling for legal system, rule of law and other variables, we find incremental improvement in accrual quality in the treatment sample relative to the benchmark sample from the pre-enforcement period 2006-07 to the enforcement period 2008-10. The results suggest that institutional oversight has an incrementally positive impact on accrual quality over and above that attributable to legal system, rule of law and other variables. The results are robust to different measures of accrual quality, alternative enforcement proxy and alternative samples.

Keywords: accrual quality; enforcement; IFRS; institutional oversight

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kabir, Humayun and Laswad, Fawzi, The Impact of Improvements in Institutional Oversight on IFRS Accrual Quality in Europe (August 12, 2014). Kabir, H. and Laswad, H. The Impact of Improvements in Institutional Oversight on IFRS Accrual Quality in Europe. Australian Accounting Review. Forthcoming. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2642755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,512
RANK
640,442
1 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies