Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Makes an Analyst Report Influential?

14 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2015

Leonie Herrmann

University of Giessen - Department of Financial Services

Alexander Gabriel Kerl

University of Giessen - Department of Financial Services

Date Written: August 19, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines common analyst report characteristics that make it likely for a report to significantly influence stock prices. First, a measurable market impact is positively associated with the size of the change in recommendations, earnings forecasts and target prices. Second, analyst-specific characteristics are decisive (i.e. consensus proximity, gender, workload and the time of publication). Third, on the firm-level, a report about a high-attention company with a high price-to-book value, small size and high turnover is more likely to be influential.

Keywords: analyst report, stock recommendation, earnings forecast, price target, influential forecast

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G24

Suggested Citation:

Herrmann, Leonie and Kerl, Alexander Gabriel, What Makes an Analyst Report Influential? (August 19, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2647266 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2647266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information Content of Equity Analyst Reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 82 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B M Barber , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Ratings Changes, Ratings Levels, and the Predictive Value of Analysts' Recommendations
Financial Management , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 533 - 53 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B M Barber , T Odean
Boys Will Be Boys: Gender, Overconfidence, and Common Stock Investment
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 116 , issue 1 , p. 261 - 92 Posted: 2001
Crossref
G Bolliger
The Characteristics of Individual Analysts' Forecasts in Europe
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 28 , issue 9 , p. 2283 - 309 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,553
RANK
218,252
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies