Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
History, Advantages, Disadvantages, Barriers to the International Harmonization, and Discussion on the Progress of Harmonization Accounting Standards in ASEAN Countries (Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand): A Review of the Research Literature

27 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2015 Last revised: 29 Apr 2016

Fiza Urif

Open University Malaysia, Bandar Baru Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia

Date Written: August 21, 2015

Abstract

Harmonization is the process of increasing the level of agreement in accounting standards and practices between countries. The purpose of this study is to boost and enhance the researchers’ understanding on the International harmonization of financial reporting. This study aims to define the International harmonization of financial reporting, identify the advantages, disadvantages and barriers for the International harmonization, and explore the progress of the harmonization of accounting standards in ASEAN countries. A literature review is done after reading articles, journals and books to gain better clarity about the subject and form a bigger picture about the study in its entirety.

Keywords: International harmonization; International harmonization of financial reporting; ASEAN countries

Suggested Citation:

Urif, Fiza, History, Advantages, Disadvantages, Barriers to the International Harmonization, and Discussion on the Progress of Harmonization Accounting Standards in ASEAN Countries (Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand): A Review of the Research Literature (August 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2648819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2648819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Accountants Today
Education: the way forward, Malaysian Institute of Accountants , p. 12 - 14 Posted: 2008
Carol A Adams , M Katarzyna , Mcmillan
Internationalizing Financial Reporting in a Newly Emerging Market Economy: The Polish Example
Advances in International Accounting , volume 10 , p. 139 - 164 Posted: 1997
M J Aitken , M A Islam
Dispelling arguments against International Accounting Standards
International Journal of Accounting Education and Research , volume 19 , p. 35 - 46 Posted: 1984
M J Ali
A synthesis of empirical research on international accounting harmonization and compliance with international financial reporting standards
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 24 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,030
RANK
186,369
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Migration, Urban & Transnational Anthropology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies