Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulations, Institutions and Income Smoothing by Managing Technical Reserves: International Evidence from the Insurance Industry

Omega, The International Journal of Management Science, Forthcoming

Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper 15/2015

45 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2015

Chrysovalantis Gaganis

University of Crete - Faculty of Social Sciences - Department of Economics

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Fotios Pasiouras

GSCM-Montpellier Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 17, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates the role of technical reserves in the income smoothing behavior of insurance companies. This is one of the first attempts in the literature to trace such relationship in the insurance industry, especially at a multi-country setting. The experience of 770 insurance firms operating in 87 countries over the period 2000-2009 reveals that there is a significant evidence of income smoothing. The paper also finds that institutional characteristics, e.g., the rule of law, common law legal origin, economic freedom, and regulations relating to technical provisions and supervisory power constrain income smoothing but other factors such as capital requirements, tax deductibility of provisions, auditing, and corporate governance do not have a significant effect.

Keywords: Earnings management, income smoothing, insurance, technical reserves

JEL Classification: G20, G22, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gaganis, Chrysovalantis and Hasan, Iftekhar and Pasiouras, Fotios, Regulations, Institutions and Income Smoothing by Managing Technical Reserves: International Evidence from the Insurance Industry (August 17, 2015). Omega, The International Journal of Management Science, Forthcoming, Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper 15/2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2649011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
J R Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank regulation and supervision: what works best
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 13 , p. 205 - 248 Posted: 2004
Crossref
W Beaver , M Mcnichols , K Nelson
Management of the loss reserve accrual and the distribution of earnings in the property-casualty insurance industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 35 , p. 315 - 346 Posted: 2003
Crossref
T Beck , A Demirguc-Kunt , R Levine
A new database on financial development and structure , volume 14 , p. 597 - 605 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G Becker
A theory of competition among pressure groups for political influence
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 98 , p. 371 - 400 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,606
RANK
235,061
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bank of Finland Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies