Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Mandatory Corporate Disclosures: Evidence from Kuwait

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 9 (3) p. 1-18

18 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Mishari M. Alfraih

The Public Authority for Applied Education and Training (Kuwait)

Faisal S. Alanezi

Public Authority for Applied Education and Training (PAAET)

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This study is the first to explore the association between the level of compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) mandatory disclosures and the value relevance of accounting information to market participants. This association is examined in the context of listed companies in the emerging economy of Kuwait – a jurisdiction with a history of applying international accounting standards but with lax enforcement. The research design of the study consists of two parts. First, the level of compliance with mandatory IFRS disclosures of Kuwait Stock Exchange (KSE) listed firms in 2010 is examined using a disclosure index. Second, the value relevance of financial statement information, specifically, earnings and book values, is examined empirically using Ohlson’s (1995) valuation model that captures the level of compliance with IFRS among KSE listed firms. The results show a significant association between the level of compliance with IFRS and the value relevance of earnings and book values to KSE investors, highlighting the importance of establishing and maintaining adequate monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to ensure compliance with accounting standards. The outcomes of this study serve to inform regulators and companies on whether moving toward stricter compliance with IFRS will necessarily improve the value relevance of financial statement information.

Keywords: Value Relevance, International Financial Reporting Standards, Compliance, Disclosure Index, Kuwait

JEL Classification: M44, M48

Suggested Citation:

Alfraih, Mishari M. and Alanezi, Faisal S., The Value Relevance of Mandatory Corporate Disclosures: Evidence from Kuwait (2015). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 9 (3) p. 1-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654941
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Bader Al-Shammari , Philip R. Brown , Ann Tarca
An Investigation of Compliance With International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council Member States
Pages: 49 Posted: 16 Feb 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Alfraih , F Alanezi
The Usefulness of Earnings and Book Value for Equity Valuation to Kuwait Stock Exchange Participants
The International Business & Economics Research Journal , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 89 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Alfraih , F Alanezi
The Effectiveness of the Joint Auditors Requirement in Promoting Corporate Disclosure Quality
Arab Journal of Administrative Sciences , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 270 Posted: 2012
K Aljifri , A Alzarouni , C Ng , M I Tahir
The Association Between Firm Characteristics and Corporate Financial Disclosures: Evidence from UAE Companies
The International Journal of Business and Finance Research , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 123 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,313
RANK
337,844
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies