Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Internet Corporate Social Responsibility Communication: Evidence from France

Global Journal of Business Research, v. 9 (2) p. 53-63, 2015

12 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Laetitia Pozniak

Université de Mons

Perrine Ferauge

Université de Mons

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This research identifies determiners of internet Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) communication of the 53 French enterprises which are members of “l’Observatoire sur la Responsabilité Sociétale des Entreprises (ORSE)”. This study is completed in two phases. First, we use an analytical grid and develop a scoring technique. We classify the French companies in our sample according to the intensity of their responsible communication on the Internet. Then, we test a set of hypotheses to highlight the explanatory variables of the communication level on the Internet of the responsible enterprise. The results indicate the performance of firms is positively related to the level of CSR communication trough the web.

Keywords: Communication, Internet, Websites, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Sustainable Development

JEL Classification: C31, M14, M15, M31, O32

Suggested Citation:

Pozniak, Laetitia and Ferauge, Perrine, Determinants of Internet Corporate Social Responsibility Communication: Evidence from France (2015). Global Journal of Business Research, v. 9 (2) p. 53-63, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
M Adams , M Hossain
Managerial discretion and voluntary disclosure: empirical evidence from the New Zealand life insurance industry
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 17 , p. 245 - 281 Posted: 1998
Crossref
L C Almilia
An Empirical Study of Factors Influencing Internet Financial and Sustainability Reporting in Indonesia Stock Exchange Posted: 2009
L Arnone , O Colot , M Croquet , A Geerts , L Pozniak
, p. 49 - 56 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Ben Rhouma , A Cormier , D
Déterminants de la communication sociale et environnementale des entreprises françaises". Paper presented in 28ème Congrès de l'Association Francophone de Comptabilité « Comptabilité et Environnement », IAE Poitiers Posted: 2007-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,459
RANK
464,622
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies