Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance of Technical Analysis in Declining Global Markets

Global Journal of Business Research, v. 9 (2) p. 41-52, 2015

12 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Jogiyanto Hartono

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM)

Dedhy Sulistiawan

University of Surabaya

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The main objective of this research is to discuss the impact of declining global markets on technical analysis performance using international data. McKenzie (2007) shows that technical analysis performs well during the 1998 financial crisis. Technical analysis produces better performance in stock markets with high volatility and a downward trend than in stable and uptrend markets (Ahmed et al., 2000). This study uses OSIRIS and Yahoo Finance databases. The focus is in the year 2011 because global stock markets substantially decline in that year. The year 2010 was a non-decreasing year, and data for that year are used as a control sample. This study examines 21 countries around the world. The total numbers of technical analysis signals identified are 11,040. For robustness tests, this study employs some technical analysis methods. These are SMA5 (5 days Simple Moving Average), SMA10, SMA15, WMA5 (5 days Weighted Moving Average), WMA10, and WMA15. In addition, short and long strategies and the combination of both are used. The findings strongly suggest that technical analysis produces higher returns than buy and hold strategies in declining global markets.

Keywords: Technical Analysis, Simple Moving Average, Weighted Moving Average, Declining Global Market

JEL Classification: G01, G15

Suggested Citation:

Hartono, Jogiyanto and Sulistiawan, Dedhy, Performance of Technical Analysis in Declining Global Markets (2015). Global Journal of Business Research, v. 9 (2) p. 41-52, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,742
RANK
263,504
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies