Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between the Capitalization of Intangible Assets and Financial Analysts’ Earnings Forecast Errors: The Effect of IFRS 3 and IAS 38

Journal of Accounting Review, DOI:10.6552/JOAR.2015.61.2

Posted: 2 Sep 2015

Yu-Chen Lin

National Cheng Kung University - Accounting

Chaur-Shiuh Young

National Cheng Kung University - Department and Graduate Institute of Accountancy

Wen-Chi Sun

Far East University-Department of Marketing and Logistics Management

Mei-Feng Chiu

Ernst & Young LLP

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

This study examines whether the information on capitalization of intangible assets improves the precision of analysts’ forecasts after the adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 38 for Asian firms. In addition, we investigate whether the forecast relevance of intangible assets information guided by IFRS 3 and IAS 38 depends on the level of a firm’s total potential intangible assets, origins of law, the level of law enforcement, and the level of earnings management. Our empirical results show that, on average, the adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 38 does not significantly influence the relationship between the capitalization of intangibles and analysts’ earnings forecast errors. However, a further analysis indicates that the capitalization of intangibles following the rules of IFRS 3 and IAS 38 significantly improves analysts’ earnings forecast accuracy for firms with higher level of underlying intangible assets, firms domiciled in common law countries, and firms that are less suspected of earnings management. Taken together, these results imply that firm characteristics and country-level institutional factors are important determinants of the benefits from adopting IFRS 3 and IAS 38.

Keywords: Intangible assets, Analysts' earnings forecast errors, Business combinations, Earnings management

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Yu-Chen and Young, Chaur-Shiuh and Sun, Wen-Chi and Chiu, Mei-Feng, The Relationship between the Capitalization of Intangible Assets and Financial Analysts’ Earnings Forecast Errors: The Effect of IFRS 3 and IAS 38 (September 1, 2015). Journal of Accounting Review, DOI:10.6552/JOAR.2015.61.2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654182
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,671
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies