Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Earnings Opacity: Indonesia Evidence

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 9 (3) p. 95-104, 2015

10 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2016

Zuhrohtun Zuhrohtun

Universitas Pembangunan Nasional “Veteran” Yogyakarta Indonesia

Zaki Baridwan

University of Brawijaya

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The opacity index of Indonesia ranks 35 of 48 countries in the world (Milken Institute, 2009) and 32 of 34 countries (Bhattacharya et al., 2003). It indicates that earnings quality of Indonesian public companies is low. The factors affecting earnings opacity of Indonesian public firms remains a question. This study investigates whether: (1) firms with concentrated ownership have higher earnings opacity compared to those of dispersed ownership, (2) firms audited by Big Four accounting firms have lower earnings opacity relative to those audited by non-big four firms, (3) financial firms have higher earnings opacity compared to non-financial firms, and (4) smaller firms have lower earnings opacity compared to larger firms. The sample for the study consist of all firms listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange in 2008-2010. This study used independent sample t-test and regression analysis to test the hypotheses. Research findings suggest that: (1) smaller firms tend have greater earnings opacity than larger firms and it is used to maintain their private information from competitors, (2) firms with higher concentrated ownership tend to have lower earnings opacity. This finding suggests that a single majority ownership plays an important role in monitoring the transparency of information.

Keywords: Earnings Opacity, Concentrated Ownership, Smaller Firms, Larger Firms, Financial Firms, Big Four, Non Big Four

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Zuhrohtun, Zuhrohtun and Baridwan, Zaki, Determinants of Earnings Opacity: Indonesia Evidence (2015). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 9 (3) p. 95-104, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2655164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Akhigbe , A D Martin
Valuation Impact of Sarbanes-Oxley: Evidence from Disclosure and Governance within the Financial Services Industry
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 30 , p. 989 - 1006 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Ronald C Anderson , Augustine Duru , David M Reeb
Working Paper The International Journal of Business and Finance Research ♦ VOLUME , volume 9 Posted: 2006
Ronald C Anderson , Augustine Duru , David M Reeb
Founders, Heirs, and Corporate Opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Bok Baik , Jun-Koo Kang , Richard M. Morton
Managerial Ownership and Information Opacity
Pages: 53 Posted: 14 Sep 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
RANK
254,521
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies