Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS Adoption on Stock Market Volatility

The IUP Journal of Applied Finance, Vol. 20, No. 4, October 2014, pp. 58-68

Posted: 7 Sep 2015

Pushpa Negi

Symbiosis International University - Symbiosis Law School, Noida

Romit Srivastava

Symbiosis International University - Symbiosis Law School, Noida

Shiva Bhasin

Symbiosis International University (SIU)

Date Written: September 7, 2015

Abstract

From 2005 onwards, consolidated financial statements of listed European companies of around 7,000 had to comply with IFRS (IAS). This study examines the impact of IFRS adoption on the stock market volatility of 10 European stock markets by fitting Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (ARCH) and Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (GARCH) models. The data was obtained from yahoofinance.com for the period January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005. The stationarity of the time series was checked through unit root test and then descriptive statistics of different stock indices was obtained. The ARCH model was applied to check the presence of ARCH effect in all return series and GARCH(1, 1) model was used to estimate the return volatility. The results suggested that there was high volatility of returns in the markets during the sample period. The GARCH coefficient of Austria, France, Germany, Hungary, Spain and the United Kingdom was close to 1, which indicates that volatility shocks were quite persistent. The coefficient of the lagged squared returns was also positive for these indices, and it implied that stock market volatility or market operators react more to good news than bad news, or the market is positive about the adoption of IFRS. On the other side, the IFRS adoption news did not affect the volatility of Greece, Italy, the Netherlands and Portugal during the sample period.

Suggested Citation:

Negi, Pushpa and Srivastava, Romit and Bhasin, Shiva, The Impact of IFRS Adoption on Stock Market Volatility (September 7, 2015). The IUP Journal of Applied Finance, Vol. 20, No. 4, October 2014, pp. 58-68, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2656946
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
941
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies