Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reaction to Mandatory Nonfinancial Disclosure

Management Science, 65(7), pp.3061-3084

47 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2015 Last revised: 30 Jan 2020

Jody Grewal

Joseph L. Rotman School of Management - University of Toronto

Eddie Riedl

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: August 1, 2017

Abstract

We examine the equity market reaction to events associated with the passage of a directive in the European Union (EU) mandating increased nonfinancial disclosure. These disclosures relate to firms’ environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance, and would be applicable to firms listed on EU exchanges or with significant operations in the EU. We predict and find (i) an on average negative market reaction; (ii) a less negative market reaction for firms having higher pre-directive nonfinancial performance; and (iii) a less negative reaction for firms having higher pre-directive nonfinancial disclosure levels. Results are accentuated for firms having the most material ESG issues, as well as investors anticipating proprietary and political costs as a result of the mandated disclosures. Overall, the results are consistent with the equity market perceiving that this disclosure regulation of nonfinancial information would lead to net costs (benefits) for firms with weak (strong) nonfinancial performance and disclosure.

Keywords: event study; ESG reporting; international; nonfinancial disclosure; sustainability; environmental; social responsibility; governance

JEL Classification: M4, G14, G15, G18

Suggested Citation:

Grewal, Jyothika and Riedl, Edward J. and Serafeim, George, Market Reaction to Mandatory Nonfinancial Disclosure (August 1, 2017). Management Science, 65(7), pp.3061-3084, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2657712 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2657712
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Barth , M Mcnichols , P Wilson
Factors influencing firms' disclosures about environmental liabilities
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 64 Posted: 1997
A Beatty , S Chamberlain , J Magliolo
An empirical analysis of the economic implications of fair value accounting for investment securities
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 43 - 77 Posted: 1996
Crossref
L S Bennear , S M Olmstead
The impacts of the "right to know": Information disclosure and the violation of drinking water standards
Journal of Environmental Economics and Management , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 117 - 130 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,318
RANK
3,760
129 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies