Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption and Implementation of IFRS in India: A Corporate Experience

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 4, October 2014, pp. 7-24

Posted: 9 Sep 2015

Anubha Srivastava

Amity Business School

Priyanka Gupta

Amity University

Date Written: September 9, 2015

Abstract

IFRS adoption in India has been a burning issue since the announcement made by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. IFRS has its own pros and cons, and leaving local standards and adopting international standards requires knowledge and expertise. Therefore, this paper tries to find out, both with the help of primary and secondary data analyses, what a corporate report will look like after adoption and what will be the impact of IFRS on key ratio. And to support these analyses, a questionnaire survey was also been conducted. Synchronizing accounting standards across the globe is an ongoing process in the international accounting community. The aim is to understand the implications of applying IFRS in India and how it is accepted by the corporate in India.

Suggested Citation:

Srivastava, Anubha and Gupta, Priyanka, Adoption and Implementation of IFRS in India: A Corporate Experience (September 9, 2015). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIII, No. 4, October 2014, pp. 7-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2657940
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies