Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information Quality in Latin and North American Public Firms

Paulo, Edilson; Martins, Eliseu; Girão, Luiz Felipe de Araújo Pontes (2014). Accounting Information Quality in Latin- and North-American Public Firms, in Cláudio De Araujo Wanderley , Fábio Frezatti (ed.) Accounting in Latin America (Research in Accounting in Emerging Economies, Volume 14) Emerald G

43 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2015

Edilson Paulo

Federal University of Santa Catarina

Eliseu Martins

University of São Paulo (USP)

Felipe Pontes

L4 Capital; Azure Investments; Federal University of Paraiba (UFPB)

Date Written: June 14, 2014

Abstract

Purpose: We analyze the quality of accounting information reported by public firms in Latin-America and United States of America.

Methodology/approach: To reach our objective, an exploratory and descriptive research was developed. To analyze the dimensions of accounting information quality, the operational model present in literature were applied which assess the persistence in earnings (Dechow and Schrand, 2004), the level of conservatism (Ball and Shivakumar, 2005), accounting earnings management (Pae, 2005) and accruals quality measurement (Dechow and Dichev, 2002), in a sample composed of publicly traded companies in the markets of Latin America and the North America (represented by USA), totaling 2,526 companies, from 2005 to 2011.

Findings: Our results evidenced that financial reporting of Latin-American companies are less conservative (except for Brazilian companies) and has similar level of earnings management in comparison to the North-American ones. Concerning to the quality of accruals it was observed that there are significant differences especially related to accruals of Brazilian companies.

Practical Implications: Our results suggest differences in the quality of accounting information, originated by the economic environment where the company is inserted. So, investors must be careful when they are comparing firms between these markets, because the results were different for some cases, which may lead the investors to make misallocation of his resources.

Originality/Value of paper: We expanded previous literature by the use of various proxies for accounting quality, comparing firms on emerging markets with the major capital market (USA), and the crises period of time.

Keywords: quality of accounting information, persistence, conservatism, earnings management, accrual quality

JEL Classification: G1, G14, G15, G38, M40

Suggested Citation:

Paulo, Edilson and Martins, Eliseu and Pontes Girão, Luiz Felipe de Araújo, Accounting Information Quality in Latin and North American Public Firms (June 14, 2014). Paulo, Edilson; Martins, Eliseu; Girão, Luiz Felipe de Araújo Pontes (2014). Accounting Information Quality in Latin- and North-American Public Firms, in Cláudio De Araujo Wanderley , Fábio Frezatti (ed.) Accounting in Latin America (Research in Accounting in Emerging Economies, Volume 14) Emerald G, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2660134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A Ali , L S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball
Discussion: The association between firms' value and accounting numbers after adoption of fresh start reporting
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 14 , p. 212 - 218 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Kothari __________ , S P Robin , A
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang , __________ , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 3 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,353
RANK
292,525
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies