Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GAAP vs. IFRS Treatment of Leases and the Impact on Financial Ratios

Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 7 (1) p. 93-104

12 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2016

Thomas Buchman

University of Colorado

Peter Harris

New York Institute of Technology

Michelle Liu

CUNY Hunter College

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

As of January 1, 2013, most of the world financial market economies are using International Reporting Standards (IFRS) as the required framework for financial statements. A non-comprehensive listing includes the European Union Countries, Canada, Australia, Japan and New Zealand. In the United States, US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) is still required but adoption of IFRS has support of many accounting firms and professional organizations and is under consideration by the SEC. This case study focuses on differences in the treatment of leases and the impact of these differences on financial statements and selected financial ratios. Students take GAAP financial statements and prepare an IFRS based balance sheet, cash flow statement and income statement. It is necessary to understand both GAAP and IFRS rules regarding leases to address this case study. This case study is suitable for use at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. It may be used in an Intermediate Accounting II, Accounting Theory, Financial Statement Analysis or an International Accounting class, as well as an Investment Finance course. The case can be offered as an individual case study or as a group project.

Keywords: US GAAP, IFRS, Capital Lease, Operating Lease, Financing Lease, Ratios

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Buchman, Thomas and Harris, Peter and Liu, Michelle, GAAP vs. IFRS Treatment of Leases and the Impact on Financial Ratios (2016). Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 7 (1) p. 93-104, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2664824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
International Financial Accounting Standards (IFRS)
Collins Revise , Johnson , Financial Reporting , Analysis , Ed , Pearson , Hall Prentice
The Analysis and Uses of Financial Statements
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles Posted: 2004
Review , Business &amp; Finance , Studies , Volume
, volume 7 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
611
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,656
RANK
100,824
1 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Pedagogy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies