Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncertainty Avoidance and the Timing of Employee Stock Option Exercise

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2665455

Posted: 26 Sep 2015 Last revised: 17 Apr 2018

Francesco Bova

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Marshall D. Vance

Virginia Tech

Date Written: September 24, 2015

Abstract

We examine the impact of the cultural norm of uncertainty avoidance on employee stock option (ESO) exercise behaviour using proprietary data from a multinational firm. We find that employees from countries with higher levels of uncertainty avoidance exercise their stock options earlier. These findings lend support to a maintained assumption in the ESO literature that employee attitudes towards uncertainty influence stock option exercise behaviours. Our findings further help to explain prior findings of cross-cultural differences in firms' compensation practices by indicating that employee responses to option-based pay and firms' consequent financial reporting costs vary as functions of employee uncertainty avoidance.

Keywords: employee stock options, option exercise, compensation, multinationals, subjective valuation, FAS 123R

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M52, J33

Suggested Citation:

Bova, Francesco and Vance, Marshall D., Uncertainty Avoidance and the Timing of Employee Stock Option Exercise (September 24, 2015). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2665455, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2665455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2665455
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,709
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies