Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Accounting for Markets or from Markets - Empirical Study of Financial Accounting Practice during and after the Global Financial Crisis with Regard to Mandatory and Voluntary Disclosures

Posted: 26 Sep 2015

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: September 24, 2015

Abstract

This working paper intends to follow an inductive approach by performing an empirical study of annual reports of global financial institutions during and after the Global Financial crisis in 2008 with regard to compulsory and voluntary company disclosures. The hypothesis is that due to the enormous market pressure, which was reflected in the low market prices companies were forced to enhance transparency of their financial reporting disclosures without further regulation with the intention to lower their cost of capital. Based on these findings it should be facilitated for standard-setters to assess what might be incentives for voluntary disclosures as well as for the extension of mandatory disclosures.

Keywords: Accouting theory, financial crisis, mandatory, voluntary, disclosures

JEL Classification: K1

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, Financial Accounting for Markets or from Markets - Empirical Study of Financial Accounting Practice during and after the Global Financial Crisis with Regard to Mandatory and Voluntary Disclosures (September 24, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2665381
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,246
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies