Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Bias of Corporate News in China: Role of Commercialization and Conglomeration Reforms

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-52

60 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2015

Joseph D. Piotroski

Stanford Graduate School of Business

T.J. Wong

University of Sothern California

Tianyu Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Date Written: September 8, 2015

Abstract

Using textual analyses of 1.8 million articles, this paper examines whether the authoritarian government in China, despite its direct ownership and control of the press, manages to increase the diversity of corporate news through commercialization and conglomeration reforms. Through the creation of business newspapers, commercialization introduced market competition into the media market; conglomeration subsequently re-organized business and official newspapers from the same locale into a single news group. Our evidence shows that business newspaper articles are less politically biased than official newspaper articles, and this difference in the bias magnifies among conglomerated newspapers, with business newspapers showing a further reduction in political bias. Our results are robust to using a matched firm-month research design that examines the content of articles written about the same firm in the same month and a difference-in-difference approach to test for conglomeration effects. Corroborating evidence on the perceived informativeness of the news articles, as captured by absolute stock price response to article publication, follows a similar pattern. That is, the stock price response is stronger for business newspaper articles than official newspaper articles, and this difference is larger for conglomerated newspapers than non-conglomerated newspapers. The evidence suggests that commercialization can shift newspapers’ reporting incentives towards consumers’ preferences and attenuates state influence, even under state ownership and control. Also, conglomeration facilitates specialization and diversification, allowing business newspapers to focus on commercial objectives and official newspapers to concentrate on political goals. The combined evidence suggests the reforms allowed the government to successfully realign the newspaper industry to better fulfill its dual role as the government’s mouthpiece and an information institution supporting the market economy.

Keywords: Media, China, Commercialization, Conglomeration Reform, Bias in Corporate News

JEL Classification: D2, G18, G38, L51, L82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Piotroski, Joseph D. and Wong, T.J. and Zhang, Tianyu, Political Bias of Corporate News in China: Role of Commercialization and Conglomeration Reforms (September 8, 2015). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-52, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2674780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2674780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
G Egorov , S Guriev , K Sonin
Why resource-poor dictators allow freer media: A theory and evidence from panel data
American Political Science Review , volume 103 , issue 4 , p. 645 - 668 Posted: 2009
Crossref
G Fan , Wang , X
The Report on the Relative Process of Marketization of Each Region in China Posted: 2003
S Gehlbach , K Sonin
Government control of the media
Journal of Public Economics , volume 118 , p. 163 - 171 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Gentzkow , E L Glaeser , C Goldin
The rise of the fourth estate. How newspapers became informative and why it mattered
Corruption and Reform: Lessons from America's Economic History , p. 187 - 230 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
725
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,844
RANK
80,890
26 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies