Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Impact Factor and the Gap between Accounting Research and Practice

25 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2015

Alberto Quagli

Università degli Studi di Genova

Francesco Avallone

Università degli Studi di Genova; Università degli Studi di Genova

Paola Ramassa

Università degli Studi di Genova

Date Written: September 9, 2015

Abstract

This paper explores the gap between research and practice in the accounting field with two primary objectives. First, it provides a review of the main results obtained by the impressive literature existing on the topic in order to get a comprehensive picture of this phenomenon, considering the different perspectives and research methods used so far. This is aimed not only at summarizing results, but also at outlining a logical framework that could be useful both for our analysis and for future studies on the topic. Starting from that framework, our second objective is to carry out an empirical analysis looking at scholars’ motivations and incentives – rather neglected by prior literature - with a particular focus on their relationships with standard setters and professional associations.

Evidence from our survey (with 447 questionnaires completed by EAA members) suggests that there is a hierarchy of objectives informing scholars’ motivations and that the first one is to publish on highly ranked journals. In such a context, the positive attitude of academics towards practice can be sometimes in conflict with scholars’ expectation about effort, individual result and peers’ consideration. In other terms, our study supports the idea that there is a gap between research and practice, together with a risk of an increasingly closed community of scientists. Our results seems to be in line with studies stating that the reasons for this gap essentially lie in the current evaluation logic driving scholars’ incentives. Additionally, evidence on scholars’ incentives might be helpful in finding new solutions to bridge the gap and supporting future research with the same objective.

Keywords: real impact factor, research-practice gap, research evaluation, research impact, accounting research, standard setters

JEL Classification: M40, M41, I23

Suggested Citation:

Quagli, Alberto and Avallone, Francesco and Ramassa, Paola, The Real Impact Factor and the Gap between Accounting Research and Practice (September 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2674058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2674058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
D Ashton , V Beattie , J Broadbent , C Brooks , P Draper , M Ezzamel , D Gwilliam , R Hodgkinson , K Hoskin , P Pope , A Stark
British research in accounting and finance , volume 41 , p. 199 - 207 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Cooper David , J
Is there a future for interpretive accounting research?
Critical Perspectives On Accounting , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 837 - 839 Posted: 2008
J Cottingham , R Hussey
Publishing in professional accounting journals: academic institutional performance 1987-1996
British Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 114 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Czarniawska
Successful Research: In Whose Eyes?
European Accounting Review , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 55 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,866
RANK
320,086
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies