Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Financial Reporting on Bank Loan Contracting in Global Markets: Evidence from Mandatory IFRS Adoption

Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2015

Tai-Yuan CHEN

Department of Accounting, HKUST Business School, Hong Kong University of Science & Technology

Chen-lung Chin

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Shiheng Wang

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Chun Yao

National Chengchi University (NCCU)

Date Written: October 19, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the effects of the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on the contract terms of bank loans in a global setting. Using a difference-in-differences design based on 26,474 bank loans in 31 countries during the 2000-2011 period, we find that borrowers who mandatorily adopt IFRS experience an increase in interest rates, a reduction in the use of accounting-based financial covenants, an increase in the likelihood that a loan is collateralized, a reduction in loan maturity and an increase in the fraction of a loan retained by lead arrangers. These findings are robust to the removal of the 2008 financial crisis from our analysis as well as to the matching of IFRS and non-IFRS borrowers on various country- and firm-level characteristics. Furthermore, we find that these changes are more pronounced for borrowers with greater financial reporting changes as well as those with poorer accounting quality after IFRS adoption.

Keywords: Information asymmetry; accounting quality; mandatory IFRS adoption; bank loan contracts

JEL Classification: G15; G21; F34; M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Tai-Yuan and Chin, Chen-lung and Wang, Shiheng and Yao, Chun, The Effects of Financial Reporting on Bank Loan Contracting in Global Markets: Evidence from Mandatory IFRS Adoption (October 19, 2015). Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2675959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economic Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K H Bae , V K Goyal
Creditor rights, enforcement and bank loans
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 823 - 860 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball , R M Bushman , F P Vasvari
The debt contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,886
RANK
185,789
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HKUST Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies