Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boards of a Feather: Homophily in Foreign Director Appointments Around the World

67 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2015 Last revised: 20 Mar 2020

John Manuel Barrios

Yale School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research

Pietro A. Bianchi

Bocconi

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Dhananjay Nanda

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 11, 2020

Abstract

We examine whether similarities in legal, sociological, and cultural characteristics between countries (country-pair homophily) affect foreign director appointments. Our results from estimating a gravity model, which includes economic and geographic country characteristics, indicate that country-pair homophily is associated with foreign director appointments to corporate boards. Country-pair homophily plays a more significant role in the foreign director market than in other cross-border exchange, such as trade, migration, and foreign investment, consistent with homophily being more important in bilateral voluntary human exchange. We use the international IFRS adoption and the gender-quota adoption in Norway as regulatory interventions to assess the role of country-pair homophily in new foreign director appointments. We find that both events led firms to appoint directors from countries that were, prior to the regulation, less institutionally, socially and culturally similar, attesting to the importance of homophily in foreign director appointments. Overall, we identify an impediment to the effectiveness of foreign director appointments driving global governance practice convergence.

Keywords: foreign directors, gravity model, corporate governance

JEL Classification: F20, F22, G15, G34

Suggested Citation:

Barrios, John Manuel and Bianchi, Pietro A. and Isidro, Helena and Nanda, Dhananjay, Boards of a Feather: Homophily in Foreign Director Appointments Around the World (March 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2676834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2676834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 124 , issue 3 , p. 1095 - 1131 Posted: 2012
H Hansmann , R Kraakmann
The end of history for corporate law. Discussion Paper Posted: 2001
K Head , T Mayer
What separates us? Sources of resistance to globalization , p. 3 - 34 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
Boards of directors as an endogenously determined institution: a survey of the economic literature. Federal Reserve Bank of New York Economic Policy Review , volume 9 , p. 7 - 26 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,941
RANK
88,500
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies