Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interrelation Among Faithful Representation (Reliability), Corruption and IFRS Adoption: An Empirical Investigation

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, 8(1): 25-50 (2015)

26 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2015

Alexios Kythreotis

European University Cyprus

Date Written: August 21, 2015

Abstract

Purpose – The degree of corruption, among other things, indicates the non-implementation of laws, weak enforcement of legal sanctions and the existence of non-transparent economic transactions. Therefore, the expected change in reliability (faithful-representation) resulting from the adoption of IAS/IFRS, does not depend solely on the adoption of IAS/IFRS but is also influenced by the degree of corruption in each country. The purpose of this paper is to examine whether the above statement is true.

Design/methodology/approach – The data were taken from DataStream database and the sample period consists of listed companies of fifteen European countries that adopted IAS/IFRS mandatorily. The time horizon is 10 years, from 2000 until 2009. The period between 2000 and 2004 is defined as the period before the adoption, while the period between 2005 and 2009 is defined as the period after the adoption. The reliability/faithful representation of financial statements – as defined by the Conceptual Framework – is detected through regression analysis.

Findings – The findings advocate that the adoption of IFRS/IAS seems to be not enough. It appears that the level of reliability of financial statements in every country does not depend solely on the adoption of IAS/IFRS but is also influenced by the degree of corruption in each country.

Research limitations/implications – The models that are used for the measurement of reliability have as an independent variable the short-term accruals. Given that, the models fail to take into consideration accounting treatments that concern non-current assets/liabilities.

Originality/value – The findings that are identified for counties with a high degree of corruption indicate a statistically significant reduction in reliability after the adoption of IAS/IFRS. These findings constitute a useful tool for the IASB and the European Commission as well as for the users of financial statements.

Keywords: IAS/IFRS Adoption, Faithful representation/reliability, Corruption, Conceptual framework

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kythreotis, Alexios, The Interrelation Among Faithful Representation (Reliability), Corruption and IFRS Adoption: An Empirical Investigation (August 21, 2015). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, 8(1): 25-50 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2677120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
S A Anwer , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence Posted: 2010
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors', Accounting and Business Research International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in UK Private Firms: Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,669
RANK
302,340
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Institutions & Transition Economics: Political Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies