Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discursive Legitimation of Global Accounting Standards: Principles-Based as Discourse

47 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2015

Masatsugu Sanada

Kyoto Tachibana University

Date Written: January 6, 2015

Abstract

This paper analyses the roles of discourse in the legitimation process of institutions. In particular, it explains the theoretical significance of “principles-based” as discourse and describes how this discourse roles and functions in the global diffusion of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). By applying the critical discourse analysis and the Latourian framework, I conduct qualitative analysis on the principles-based versus rules-based debate. My findings show two kinds of translation in the diffusion of IFRS: problematization of rules-based accounting standards and translational implementation of IFRS. Overall, this paper suggests that the principles-based discourse plays a critical role in the institutionalization of global accounting standards.

Keywords: Discursive legitimation, Global accounting standards, Principles-based, Translation, IFRS

JEL Classification: G18, G38, L50, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sanada, Masatsugu, Discursive Legitimation of Global Accounting Standards: Principles-Based as Discourse (January 6, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2678800 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2678800
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K Ahmed , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A meta-analysis of IFRS adoption effects
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Response to FASB Invitation to Comment on the FASB Proposal for a New Agenda Project on Issues Related to the Recognition of Revenues and Liabilities
American Accounting Association's Financial Accounting Standards Committee (AAA Posted: 2002-04
Commentary: evaluating concepts-based vs. rules-based approaches to standard setting. Accounting Horizons
American Accounting Association's Financial Accounting Standards Committee (AAA) , volume 17 , p. 73 - 89 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,242
RANK
511,635
1 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Corporate Finance & Governance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies