Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Have Canada, Japan and Switzerland Adopted IFRS?

Australian Accounting Review, Forthcoming

18 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2015

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: October 24, 2015

Abstract

Although many countries have passed laws to require the use of ‘IFRS as issued by the IASB’ for certain types of financial reporting, that is not the typical approach to adoption of IFRS in major developed countries. This paper uses Australia and Pakistan as examples of minor and major adjustments to the content of IFRS. Then it uses Canada as an example of restricted scope of mandatory application of IFRS. This is compared to extensive voluntary adoption in Switzerland and increasing voluntary adoption in Japan. The paper asks what ‘adoption’ means in the context of Canada, Japan and Switzerland. Finally, the paper looks at how companies in many countries limit the potential value of international comparability by not affirming compliance with ‘IFRS as issued by the IASB’ even when they achieve it.

Keywords: IFRS, jurisdictions, adoption, Canada, Japan

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nobes, Christopher William and Zeff, Stephen A., Have Canada, Japan and Switzerland Adopted IFRS? (October 24, 2015). Australian Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2679361 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2679361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Evans
We are aware of, and have contributed to, the literature that suggests that IFRS cannot be translated without causing differences in meaning Posted: 2015-05
How IFRS Can Add Value to Your Information
BDO 2012
G Bompas
International Financial Reporting Standards (Issues Arising in Relation to the Companies Act
Local Authority Pension Fund Forum Posted: 2006-05
L Chen , J Ng , A Tsang
The effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on international cross-listings
Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1395 - 435 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
348
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,798
RANK
197,037
4 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies