Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS/SLFRS Adoption on the Earnings Management of Sri Lankan Firms

17 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2015

Kosgollage Anura Udayakumara

Rajarata University of Sri Lanka - Faculty of Management Studies

Prageeth Weerathunga

Rajarata University of Sri Lanka

Date Written: October 28, 2015

Abstract

The aim of this study is to examine the earnings management behavior of Sri Lankan firms following mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/SLFRS). Especially, this study investigates whether the mandatory adoption of IFRS/SLFRS in the Sri Lanka has resulted in deterring earnings management for Sri Lankan firms. Prior to the adoption of IFRS/SLFRS for financial years beginning 1 January 2012, Sri Lankan firms reported under Sri Lankan Accounting Standards (SLAS). Thus, this study predicted that the earnings management has decreased significantly after mandatory adoption of IFRS/SLFRS in 2012. The sample this study consists of 157 firms listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange and data were collected from financial years 2009/2010 to 2013/2014. This study uses five individual measures of earnings management relating to earnings smoothing and managing towards earnings targets. Firms are said to have reduced their earnings management if they display lower levels of earnings smoothing and less management towards earnings targets. Contrary to the prediction, the results of this study reveal that Sri Lankan firms exhibit higher level of earnings smoothing after mandatory adoption of IFRS/SLFRS and thereby indicative of higher level of earnings management. However, consistent with the prediction Sri Lankan firms display lower level earnings management in term of less managing towards earning targets. The level of earning management is one aspect of reporting quality of a firm. Therefore, lower level of earnings management is in turn reflecting better reporting quality. Thus, These findings suggest that there is room for further improvement in order to ensure that firms consistently apply the requirement of IFRS/SLFRS and make improvements in all aspects of reporting quality.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Mandatory Adoption, IFRS/SLFRS, Sri Lankan Firms

Suggested Citation:

Udayakumara, Kosgollage Anura and Weerathunga, Prageeth, The Impact of IFRS/SLFRS Adoption on the Earnings Management of Sri Lankan Firms (October 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2682437 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2682437
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Equity Valuation of Accounting Numbers for Security Investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemp Account Res , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Mark H. Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976 Pages: 55 Posted: 11 Apr 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,779
RANK
166,710
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies