Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Effect of Bright-Line Tests: Evidence from China

19 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2015

Yunling Song

Zhejiang University

Ling Zhou

University of New Mexico

Date Written: October 30, 2015

Abstract

China’s Shenzhen Stock Exchange used to require firms listed on its ChiNext Board and Main Board to forecast earnings when they expected a loss, a profit after a prior loss, or an earnings increase or decrease by at least 50%. Starting from fiscal year 2011, all firms on the ChiNext Board are required to provide earnings forecasts regardless of expected earnings, and hence are no longer subject to these bright-line tests. Firms on the Main Board, however, continue to follow the original mandate with bright-line tests. We find that after the removal of the bright-line tests, ChiNext firms’ earnings change distribution still shows a discontinuity at the -50% threshold, with unusually low (high) frequencies of earnings changes just below (above) -50%, consistent with ChiNext firms manipulating earning to avoid the -50% earnings change threshold. Moreover, the magnitude of the discontinuity is similar to that of Main firms. This finding suggests that bright-line tests have spillover effect on firms not currently subject to these tests.

Suggested Citation:

Song, Yunling and Zhou, Ling, The Spillover Effect of Bright-Line Tests: Evidence from China (October 30, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2684190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,438
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies