Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Content of Mandated Bank Stress Test Disclosures

58 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2015 Last revised: 21 Nov 2018

Atif Ellahie

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Date Written: November 30, 2016

Abstract

Prior studies generally question the credibility and usefulness of the disclosed outcomes of government stress tests of banks in the European Union during the recent global financial crisis. In contrast, I document robust evidence that the geographic distribution of sovereign- and credit-risk exposures disclosed in the EU stress-test results enables clear sorting of strong and weak banks on the basis of expected future performance and sovereign spillover risk. Ex ante bank specific exposure measures developed using test disclosures have predictive information content for cross-sectional variation in subsequent equity and credit returns, return volatility, the yield curve, and analyst forecast revisions.

Keywords: mandatory disclosure, stress testing, financial crisis, information content

JEL Classification: G14, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ellahie, Atif, Information Content of Mandated Bank Stress Test Disclosures (November 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2685919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,185
RANK
386,928
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies