Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill and Accounting Discretion

Scholedge International Journal of Management & Development, Vol. 2, Issue 10 (2015), pp. 9-22

14 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2015

Marco Bisogno

University of Salerno (Italy)

Date Written: November 9, 2015

Abstract

Purpose: The aim of the paper is to investigate earnings management practices related to goodwill accounting, focusing on its first recognition as well as its write-offs, due to the impairment test.

Design/methodology/approach: The study refers to a sample of Italian listed firms and the analysis covers three years, with a total of 591 firm-year observations. The modified Jones’ regression model has been used in estimating discretionary accruals, as a proxy of earnings management practices.

Findings: A positive relationship between discretionary accruals and yearly changes in goodwill has been proved. Findings also show an incidence of leverage and performance.

Research limitations/implications: The study focuses on a single context (Italy) and it is essentially based on financial-economic variables.

Practical implications: Findings of the study could be relevant for standard-setters in future revisions of goodwill accounting.

Social implication: The study could support investors in evaluating the incidence of first recognition as well as goodwill impairment on the quality of earnings.

Keywords: Goodwill; impairment test; earnings management; accounting discretion; discretionary accruals.

Suggested Citation:

Bisogno, Marco, Goodwill and Accounting Discretion (November 9, 2015). Scholedge International Journal of Management & Development, Vol. 2, Issue 10 (2015), pp. 9-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2688967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting Discretion in Goodwill Impairments: UK Evidence
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011-07-21
Crossref
S Alves
The Association Between Goodwill Impairment and Discretionary Accruals: Portuguese Evidence
Journal of Accounting , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2013
A Amendola , M Bisogno , M Restaino , L Sensini
Forecasting corporate bankruptcy: empirical evidence on Italian data
EuroMed Journal of Business , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 294 - 312 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Efrag Asbj , Oic
Should Goodwill Still not Be Amortised? Accounting and Disclosure for Goodwill Posted: 2014-08-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,949
RANK
225,977
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies