Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Shifting Incentives and Offshored U.S. Jobs

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Nov 2015 Last revised: 2 Mar 2018

Braden Williams

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 15, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines if, when, and to what extent international income shifting incentives explain where multinational firms move offshored U.S. jobs. Using a small, detailed sample of offshored jobs from a program within the Department of Labor called Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), I find that tax incentives have a material impact on where firms move offshored U.S. jobs. However, across certain sourcing arrangements, types of firms, and types of jobs, the results indicate that tax incentives have little or no association with where offshored U.S. jobs are moved, suggesting that there is significant cross-sectional variation in the degree to which tax incentives distort labor offshoring decisions. These findings are relevant to those seeking to understand the real effects and welfare consequences of incentives created by current U.S. international tax policy.

Keywords: Income shifting, offshoring, outsourcing

JEL Classification: H25, H26, F23

Suggested Citation:

Williams, Braden, Income Shifting Incentives and Offshored U.S. Jobs (September 15, 2015). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2688709 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2688709
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,420
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies