Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings

50 Pages Posted: 19 May 2001

Hollis Ashbaugh Skaife

Graduate School of Management, UC-Davis

Morton Pincus

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2000

Abstract

We investigate (1) whether the variation in accounting standards across national boundaries relative to International Accounting Standards (IAS) has an impact on the ability of financial analysts to forecast non-US firms' earnings accurately, and (2) whether analyst forecast accuracy changes after firms adopt IAS. IAS are a set of financial reporting policies that typically require increased disclosure and restrict management's choices of measurement methods relative to the accounting standards of our sample firms' countries of domicile. We develop indexes of differences in countries' accounting disclosure and measurement policies relative to IAS, and document that greater differences in accounting standards relative to IAS are significantly and positively associated with the absolute value of analyst earnings forecast errors. Further, we show that analyst forecast accuracy improves after firms adopt IAS. More specifically, after controlling for changes in the market value of equity, changes in analyst following, and changes in the number of news reports, we find that the convergence in firms' accounting policies brought about by adopting IAS is positively associated with the reduction in analyst forecast errors.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards, IAS, Analyst Earnings Forecasts

JEL Classification: F30, G29, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Skaife, Hollis Ashbaugh and Pincus, Morton P.K., Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings (July 2000). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=268951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.268951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A ; J Alford , ; R Jones , M Leftwich; , Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-US Firms' Accounting Standard Choices Posted: 1999
Crossref
K Auer
Capital Market Reactions to Earnings Announcements: Empirical Evidence on the Difference in the Information Content of IAS-Based Earnings and EC DirectivesBased Earnings
The European Accounting Review , p. 587 - 623 Posted: 1996
Crossref
O Barron , ; O Kim
Crossref
Load more
26 Citations
Antonio D’Amato , Claudia Cacia
The quality of web investor relations in listed Italian companies: Membership in the star segment – Does it make a difference?
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 333 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Naomi S. Soderstrom , Kevin Jialin Sun
IFRS Adoption and Accounting Quality: A Review
European Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 45 Pages · Posted: 26 Aug 2007 · Downloads: 12,031
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mari Paananen , Cecilia Lin
The Development of Accounting Quality of IAS and IFRS Over Time: The Case of Germany
40 Pages · Posted: 7 Dec 2007 · Last revised: 2 Oct 2008 · Downloads: 2,479
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Todd A. Gormley , Bong Hwan Kim , Xiumin Martin
Do Firms Adjust Their Timely Loss Recognition in Response to Changes in the Banking Industry?
Journal of Accounting Research, 2012, 50(1), pp. 159-196., AFA 2010 Atlanta Meetings Paper · 59 Pages · Posted: 10 Sep 2008 · Last revised: 17 Jun 2014 · Downloads: 443
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,803
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,208
RANK
10,808
26 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accounting Changes and the Accuracy of Analysts' Earnings Forecasts

By Lawrence D. Brown

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies