Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence to IND AS 16: Changes and Implications

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 3, July 2015, pp. 7-28

Posted: 18 Nov 2015

Poonam Dugar

Ahmedabad University (AU)

Vibha Tripathi

Ahmedabad University (AU)

Date Written: November 17, 2015

Abstract

With integrated global economies and cross-border mergers and acquisitions, uniformity of financial reporting by Indian companies is inevitable for the authenticity of their financial statements worldwide. The emergence of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) marks the biggest revolution in financial reporting, though not without posing challenges of convergence in India. In order to harmonize with the financial reporting worldwide, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has issued 35 IND AS -- the converged accounting standards which are in line with IFRS subject to certain carve outs (differences) due to tax-related issues, as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. With reference to this convergence, this paper provides an insight into the revised framework of AS 6 -- Depreciation and AS 10 -- Fixed Assets, with the formation of new IND AS 16 -- Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) and its implications through various illustrations. Moreover, the issues of recognition of assets are explained through different models of measurement, determination of their carrying amounts, accounting treatment of revaluation and depreciation charges on the assets. The analysis shows that adaptation to IFRS convergence opens new avenues for the accounting profession, followed by unforeseeable challenges. The analysis of the standard concludes that significant parts (components) of a PPE can be recognized, depreciated and derecognized separately and individually. There will be major changes in the value of PPE in the financial statements due to treatment of revaluation surplus.

Suggested Citation:

Dugar, Poonam and Tripathi, Vibha, Convergence to IND AS 16: Changes and Implications (November 17, 2015). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 3, July 2015, pp. 7-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2691930
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,186
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies