Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Enhance Earnings Quality? Evidence from Closer to Home

Posted: 16 Nov 2015 Last revised: 23 Nov 2015

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Jing Zhang

university of Colorado Denver

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

Canada adopted IFRS in 2011 and firms were required to provide reconciliation from Canadian GAAP (CGAAP) to IFRS for the fiscal year before the adoption. We run a “horse race” of earnings quality between CGAAP and IFRS. Further, by making use of a natural experiment and a single country focus, our study does not suffer from potential omitted variables arising from differences in socio-economic, political, and legal environments across sample firms. We find that on average, relative to IFRS-earnings, earnings under CGAAP has greater association with next period cash flows. Further, when the difference between earnings under CGAAP and IFRS is large, IFRS-earnings is less value-relevant and less persistent. The results strongly support the notion that higher earnings quality is associated with CGAAP. Finally, our results indicate that differences between CGAAP and IFRS with regard to accounting for financial instruments and investments significantly impair the quality of IFRS-earnings.

Keywords: US GAAP, IFRS, Canada, Earnings persistence

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Gopal and Zhang, Jing, Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Enhance Earnings Quality? Evidence from Closer to Home (September 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2691039
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies