Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption On the Performance of Firms in Nigeria

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Conference, May 1-2, 2012

33 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2016

Professor Muhammad Tanko

Kaduna State University

Date Written: May , 2012

Abstract

This paper assesses the effect of compliance with the regulation and provisions of the international financial reporting standards on the performance of some selected Nigerian banks that are quoted on the Nigerian stock market. The paper defines the change in performance based on two parameters. First, change in Accounting Quality of the firms, for which we used such variables as; earnings management, and timely loss recognition. Secondly we measure the performance of the firms based on changes on identified financial ratios of the firms. We tested the impact of adoption as it relates to profitability, growth, leverage, and liquidity performance. The paper utilizes secondary data to tests the effects of the adoption of IFRS on the performance of the selected firms in Nigeria. Logit regression and t-test were used in the analysis. The paper finds that variability of earnings has decreased from an average of 32624.4 to 14432.2 which suggest that there was low variability in earnings in the post adoption period. Timely loss recognition is the measure for prevalence of large negative earnings where large negative results suggest that the loss recognition is not timely in the post adoption period. For our study we found LNEG to be positive which signifies that IFRS firms recognize losses more frequently in the post adoption period than they do in the pre adoption period, we therefore conclude that accounting quality improves after the adoption of IFRS. Furthermore, under IFRS firms tend to exhibit higher values on a number of profitability measures, such as earnings per share (EPS). It is our recommendation that comprehensive implementation of the standard to its totality by firms should be encouraged and regulatory authorities such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, and external auditors should monitor strict compliance with the adoption and provisions of the standards.

Suggested Citation:

Tanko, Professor Muhammad, The Effect of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption On the Performance of Firms in Nigeria (May , 2012). International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Conference, May 1-2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2695573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
The paper recommends comprehensive implementation of the standard to its totality by firms in the country, and the regulatory authorities should monitor strict compliance. Further research in the area of other sectors of the economy and to expand the sample size will assist in documenting the impact of the adoption on the performance of the firms
F F Adegbie
International Financial Reporting Adoption, Implication on Management Accounting and Taxation in Nigerian Economy
International Journal of Research in Commerce , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2011-06
Access Bank Plc
The Implication of IFRS adoption
A Communiqué of Business Day , volume 9 , issue 186 , p. 34 - 37 Posted: 2010
A Ali , Hwang
Load more
1 Citations
Adewale Adegoke Alawiye-Adams , Owoola Rekiat Ibukun-Falayi
The Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption on the Quality of Financial Statements of Banks in Nigeria.
19 Pages · Posted: 17 Jan 2018 · Downloads: 5,206
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,080
RANK
33,641
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies