Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impression Management in Letters to Shareholders: Evidence from Poland

Hadro, D., Klimczak, K. M., & Pauka, M. (2017). Impression Management in Letters to Shareholders: Evidence from Poland. Accounting in Europe, 1-26 [Online]

47 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2015 Last revised: 15 Nov 2017

Dominika Fijalkowska

Uniwersytet Ekonomiczny we Wrocławiu

Karol Marek Klimczak

Lodz University of Technology

Marek Pauka

Uniwersytet Ekonomiczny we Wrocławiu

Date Written: January 15, 2017

Abstract

We study impression management in an emerging market setting with high ownership concentration. Using content analysis, we identify impression management techniques in a sample of letters to shareholders written in the Polish language by the 60 largest companies listed at the Warsaw Stock Exchange in 2008 and 2013. We find patterns in the occurrence of these techniques with the use of k-means clustering: the largest cluster includes letters that praise the management, while the rest include defensive arguments, discussions of negative outcomes and short, formal letters. The more concentrated ownership is, the shorter the letters are, which indicates that management invest less effort in communicating with investors. This is particularly visible in companies held by insiders, which tend to produce short, formal letters, devoid of impression management. In contrast, companies controlled by foreign shareholders prepare letters that are longer and which are more likely to present defensive arguments, while institutional non-controlling shareholders favour extensive disclosure. The results shed light upon communication practices in Central and Eastern Europe, and offer implications for regulators and managers that may help strengthen the information environment in regional stock markets.

Keywords: impression management, attribution, ownership, governance, content analysis

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Fijalkowska, Dominika and Klimczak, Karol Marek and Pauka, Marek, Impression Management in Letters to Shareholders: Evidence from Poland (January 15, 2017). Hadro, D., Klimczak, K. M., & Pauka, M. (2017). Impression Management in Letters to Shareholders: Evidence from Poland. Accounting in Europe, 1-26 [Online], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2697746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2697746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A Adamska
Własność i kontrola. Perspektywa akcjonariuszy spółek publicznych [Ownership and control. The perspective of public company shareholders Posted: 2013
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 23 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
Crossref
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 30 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
Crossref
W Aerts , P Cheng
Causal disclosures on earnings and earnings management in an IPO setting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , p. 431 - 459 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,720
RANK
339,352
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies