Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Earnings Reported Under IFRS Improve the Prediction of Future Cash Flows? Evidence from European Banks

The Australian Accounting Review 2017 Vol. 27 (2)

40 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2015 Last revised: 5 Feb 2019

Vera Palea

University of Turin

Simone Scagnelli

Edith Cowan University - Centre for Innovative Practice

Date Written: May 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines the relative costs and benefits of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption in the European Union by testing the ability of earnings computed under IFRS to predict future cash flows. The study considers the contribution of net income, comprehensive income and other comprehensive income to the usefulness of earnings to predict cash flows, and it compares IFRS with domestic Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Evidence from a sample of Continental-European banks shows that IFRS improve the ability of net income to predict future cash flows. Comprehensive income, too, provides relevant information to predict future cash flows, although with a measurement error, which is higher than that in net income for greater lags of time. In our interpretation, these findings are consistent with unrealized gains and losses recognized in other comprehensive income being more transitory and volatile in nature.

Overall, our results are relevant to academics and standard-setters debating the merits of IFRS adoption and to those who use financial statements and adopt reported earnings to form expectations about future cash flows.

Keywords: IFRS, Domestic GAAP, European Union, Banks, Cash flows, Earnings

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera and Scagnelli, Simone, Do Earnings Reported Under IFRS Improve the Prediction of Future Cash Flows? Evidence from European Banks (May 1, 2015). The Australian Accounting Review 2017 Vol. 27 (2), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2701884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,283
RANK
496,121
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies