Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Responding to Globalisation: Are Imputation Systems Up to the Challenge?

Responding to Globalisation: Are Imputation Systems Up to the Challenge?

22 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2015

Justin Dabner

Tax Re-Solutions

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

Countries around the globe are currently struggling with the seemingly conflicting goals of maintaining the integrity of their company/shareholder tax regime whilst not presenting a disincentive to both inward and outward investment. In this regard, the standard adopted by most developed nations, the imputation system, is proving difficult to adapt to the pressures of a global economy.

Imputation systems can generate a particularly perverse taxation result in circumstances where a country is merely a conduit for the flow of foreign source income and also in so called triangular situations. Whilst many countries have enacted special conduit relief provisions few have tackled the problems presented by triangular taxation.

Reforms to a country’s imputation regime necessary to tackle triangular taxation are comprehensive, complex and problematic. This is well illustrated by recent Australian and New Zealand amendments directed at one aspect of the triangular tax problem between the two nations. Although extremely complex and years in the formation, this initiative remains only a partial response to the issues that arise.

There are, however, alternative company/shareholder tax regimes to imputation. In fact the current worldwide trend is towards credit and exemption regimes partly because of issues such as conduit and triangular taxation. This is to be contrasted with the Australian and New Zealand experiment. It is suggested that notwithstanding the trade-off in equity and, possibly, revenue the adoption of an alternative company/shareholder taxation regime may be preferable to attempting to amend the imputation system.

Suggested Citation:

Dabner, Justin, Responding to Globalisation: Are Imputation Systems Up to the Challenge? (2004). Responding to Globalisation: Are Imputation Systems Up to the Challenge?, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2701070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,118
RANK
597,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies