Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of Convergence of Indian GAAP with IFRS and the Major Carve-Outs

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 4, October 2015, pp. 7-22

Posted: 16 Dec 2015

Soheli Ghose

St. Xavier’s College (Autonomous), Kolkata

Abhishek Prahaladka

St. Xavier’s College (Autonomous), Kolkata

Date Written: December 16, 2015

Abstract

The history of convergence can be traced to 2007 when The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) issued a concept paper which focused on achieving convergence with IFRS. Convergence of Indian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) has been one of the most discussed topics in recent times. After a number of delays, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), in a press release issued on January 2, 2015, announced its long-awaited road map for implementing the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS). Its revised plan for the adoption of Ind AS converged with the IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has resolved the uncertainty surrounding the execution timeline of Ind AS in India. This paper deals with Ind AS, its history and the bottlenecks in its implementation. The paper aims to analyze the major carve-outs/ins in Ind AS as compared to IFRS, to identify the impact of the key changes of convergence on the financial statements and to analyze the key differences between the existing accounting standards and the Ind AS (12, 110 and 115) as notified by MCA. With India opting for mandatory convergence with IFRS, as envisaged in the maiden budget speech of Finance Minister, Arun Jaitley, understanding the implications of Ind AS becomes imperative.

Suggested Citation:

Ghose, Soheli and Prahaladka, Abhishek, A Study of Convergence of Indian GAAP with IFRS and the Major Carve-Outs (December 16, 2015). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 4, October 2015, pp. 7-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2704203
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,296
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies