Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence with IFRS: The Case of Infosys Limited

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 4, October 2015, pp. 23-42

Posted: 17 Dec 2015

Joy Chakraborty

The Icfai Business School

Saurabh Khaira

Alliance University - Alliance University

Date Written: December 16, 2015

Abstract

Convergence from Indian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (or IGAAP as it is commonly known) to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) has given many positive results to the organizations. The adoption of IFRS has brought about significant changes in the financial reporting process. In IFRS, every identifiable transaction is clearly disclosed and classified separately, unlike in IGAAP. Apart from that, there are differences in the treatment of items such as expenses and revenue recognition. Under IFRS, items are classified using the fair value method of accounting, unlike the traditional historical cost method followed in IGAAP. This has resulted in more transparency and reliability for the investors in the financial statements prepared as per IFRS. Infosys has been the first Indian IT company to be listed in NASDAQ and the first such company to have adopted the IFRS reporting process since the year 2009. The present study is an attempt to figure out the differences and similarities in the financial reporting process between IGAAP and IFRS in general, and to point out the changes in the financial reporting process in the case of Infosys Ltd. over the FYs 2009-10 to 2013-14 in particular.

Suggested Citation:

Chakraborty, Joy and Khaira, Saurabh, Convergence with IFRS: The Case of Infosys Limited (December 16, 2015). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIV, No. 4, October 2015, pp. 23-42, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2704290
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,575
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies