Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of International Financial Reporting Standards in Oman: A Way Forward to Improve the Young Economy of Oman

Posted: 23 Dec 2015

Munawar Hameed

Independent

Date Written: April 08, 2014

Abstract

Right application of international financial reporting standards ensures that companies perform trustworthy and establish honorable commercial relationship with their stakeholders. Decent applications and practices of international financial reporting standards are vital tools as on one hand these establishes norms for best corporate administration and on the other provide effective accounting disclosures to gain trust of shareholders. The application and practice of proper international financial reporting standards is more relevant issue for good corporate management in the present competitive age as these applications maintain respectable status of a company in corporate world.This paper attempts discussion to the approved applications and practices of international financial reporting standards in context of corporate administration and governance in Oman’s scenario and that is the aim of this study.The rational of this study is to observe the scope of the application of international financial reporting standards in Oman’s perspective and supports a core objective to add values by emphasizing the importance of applications and practices of IFRS for all companies operating in Oman’s economy to produce authentic results based on proper financial reporting annually. The research setting and results are based on empirical observations which make this paper a guideline for corporate entities in Oman. The outcomes show the spectrum of existing practices by audit companies for enforcement of international financial reporting standards to the corporate world to achieve a respectable level of corporate governance. The complexity raised due to different practices and applications of international financial reporting standards and Islamic standards by different entities in Oman is also discussed in this paper. A good overview related to risk analysis shows findings and its relevance that discusses policies, procedures, practices and organizational structures associated with different organizations and covers important issues identifying business objectives closely related to the applications of international financial reporting standards for the success of organizations operates in Oman.Finally, the conclusion is designed in a manner which contributes to theoretical knowledge and imparts knowledge to professional practice and provides opportunities to the researcher to develop further research on the basis of findings to bring improvement in the economy of young Oman.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, Corporate Management, Risk Analysis, Policies,Procedures, Practices, Islamic Standards

Suggested Citation:

Hameed, Munawar, Application of International Financial Reporting Standards in Oman: A Way Forward to Improve the Young Economy of Oman (April 08, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2706816
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
914
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies