Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Theoretical Relationships Among Foreign Direct Investments, Migration and IFRS Adoption

European Financial and Accounting Journal, 2011, vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 1-15

16 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2015

David Anthony Procházka

University of Economics, Prague

Cristina Procházková Ilinitchi

Independent

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

The globalization of the world economy is accompanied by changes in volume and structure of international trade, capital flows and human migration. The paper focuses on theoretical aspects of recent changes in the area of international harmonization of accounting through the adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), migration and foreign direct investments with the emphasis on their mutual interdependencies.

Keywords: Foreign direct investments, Migration, IFRS adoption, Brain drain/gain

JEL Classification: M41, F21, F22, J61

Suggested Citation:

Prochazka, David Anthony and Procházková Ilinitchi, Cristina, The Theoretical Relationships Among Foreign Direct Investments, Migration and IFRS Adoption (2011). European Financial and Accounting Journal, 2011, vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 1-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2706796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
E Arbatli , D C Washington
Economic Policies and FDI Inflows to Emerging Market Economies Posted: 2011-10
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M E Barth , W R -Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,375
RANK
362,814
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies