Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Transfer Pricing Strictness Deterring Profit Shifting within Multinationals? Empirical Evidence from Europe

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 46, Issue 7

Posted: 30 Dec 2015 Last revised: 14 Oct 2016

Mário Marques

University of Minho

Carlos Pinho

Universidade de Aveiro

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This paper aims to examine the extent to which the introduction and tightening of transfer pricing framework deters income shifting strategies by European multinational companies. To do so, we have built an index which measures the transfer pricing framework strictness by host country and year. Then, tax rate differentials are used to capture profit shifting incentives and are interacted with the strictness index to assess whether the host country’s transfer pricing framework impacts profit shifting behaviour. The index is shown to increase significantly over the sample period, indicating that the scrutiny of related party transactions by European governments has increased over the period 2001-2009. Using a sample of European foreign subsidiaries, the results suggest that the stricter the transfer pricing framework the lower the tax rate difference sensitivity of reported earnings. This indicates that tightening the transfer pricing framework is capable of dissuading multinational companies from shifting profits from higher- to lower-tax countries.

Keywords: Profit shifting, Transfer pricing, Tax rate differential, Anti-avoidance measures

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H32, C33

Suggested Citation:

Marques, Mário and Pinho, Carlos, Is Transfer Pricing Strictness Deterring Profit Shifting within Multinationals? Empirical Evidence from Europe (2015). Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 46, Issue 7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2709035
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,380
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies