Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of CSR Performance and Amount of Material Information Disclosed on Analysts’ Forecast Accuracy

28 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2016 Last revised: 19 Nov 2016

Carlos Martinez

Independent

Markus Schneider

University of St. Gallen

Date Written: January 7, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of CSR performance and the amount of CSR material information disclosed on analysts’ forecast accuracy. Both independent variables were operationalized matching the indicators of the GRI sector guidelines with those of ASSET4. Regression analysis was used on 43,273 observations related to 359 firms from 22 countries sectors during the period 2011–2014. Data was collected from the Datastream’s ASSET4, Worldscope, and I/B/E/S databases. Results indicate that it is the amount of CSR material information disclosed and not the CSR performance which reduces analysts’ forecast error. They also show that the amount of CSR material information disclosed has more explanatory power over forecasts error than the CSR performance. The paper contributes to the literature by helping to explain the mechanism through which CSR disclosures help to reduce analysts’ forecast error. According to the results, signaling theory is more helpful than the stakeholder-risk mitigation hypothesis with regard to explaining the relationship between CSR disclosures and analysts’ forecast accuracy. These findings have implications for firms, data providers, and non-financial disclosures frameworks.

Keywords: CSR disclosures, forecast accuracy, signaling theory

JEL Classification: M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Carlos and Schneider, Markus, Effects of CSR Performance and Amount of Material Information Disclosed on Analysts’ Forecast Accuracy (January 7, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2712447 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2712447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,652
RANK
253,661
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies