Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Malaysian and Nigerian Accounting Standards Produce Similar Earnings Quality for Banks?

International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Vol. 2, Issue 7, 2013

16 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2016

Onalo Ugbede

Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia (UTHM) - Faculty of Technology Management, Business and Entrepreneurship

Mohd Lizam

Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia

Ahmad Kaseri

Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia (UTHM) - Faculty of Technology Management, Business and Entrepreneurship

Sulaiman Lame

Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia (UTHM) - Faculty of Technology Management, Business and Entrepreneurship

Date Written: july 10, 2013

Abstract

Accounting standards are developed and issued by individual nations through their accounting standard setting bodies for users and preparers of financial statements, investors, commercial enterprises and regulatory agencies of government. Judgement about earnings quality is made based on accounting information contained in the financial statement. Therefore, the objective of this study is to empirically provide an evidence of the impact of Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (MFRSs) and Nigerian Statement of Accounting Standards (NSASs) on the earnings quality of their respective banking sectors. The period of study is 2007-2011 with Malaysian and Nigerian banks constituting the study sample. The Jones model is modified to investigate the quality of earnings in both economies and a comparative analysis of the different country banks related accounting standard is equally made. It was discovered that Malaysian banks exhibit better earnings quality than Nigerian banks. Findings equally show that Malaysian FRSs are IFRSs compliant, thus more detailed, stricter, and contemporary and prescribe clearer rules than Nigerian SASs indicating that though significant relationship exist between accounting standards and banks earnings quality, MFRSs do not produce similar banks earnings quality with NSASs. It is therefore recommended that Nigerian government, standard setters and appropriate regulatory and supervisory bodies should, as a matter of urgency and seriousness embrace the full adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and ensure compliance with BASEL II requirements.

Keywords: Accounting standards, earnings quality, Jones model, MFRSs, NSASs, IFRSs, Banks

Suggested Citation:

Ugbede, Onalo and Lizam, Mohd and Kaseri, Ahmad and Lame, Sulaiman, Do Malaysian and Nigerian Accounting Standards Produce Similar Earnings Quality for Banks? (july 10, 2013). International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Vol. 2, Issue 7, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2712153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Z A Aziz
Financial Sector Blueprint 2011-2020. Governor, Central Bank of Malaysia Posted: 2012
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and business Research, International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Restrict Earnings Management. Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 1101 - 1124 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B E Fleming
Venture Capital Directors, Earnings Manipulation, & Firm Performance. A Dissertation Submitted in Partial Fulfilment of the Requirements for the Degree of Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,214
RANK
427,404
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies