Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Capital Structure: Variations in IAS 1 Disclosures of Firm Capital

34 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2016 Last revised: 24 Feb 2017

Gary M. Entwistle

Department of Accounting; University of Saskatchewan - Edwards School of Business

Hamilton Elkins

University of Saskatchewan- Edwards School of Business

Ganesh Vaidyanathan

University of Saskatchewan

Ilona Bastiaansen

University of Saskatchewan

Date Written: January 27, 2017

Abstract

This study examines how a set of Canadian and German firms apply the quantitative capital disclosure requirements contained in IAS 1. We find significant inter-country differences in both the propensity to disclose a capital structure and in the form of the disclosure. Further, we find variation both within and between countries in the balance sheet elements used to construct the numerators and denominators of the capital structures. When we compare the ratios constructed from the various combinations of balance sheet elements, we find significant measurement differences, in some cases exceeding 10 percentage points. We also find significant measurement differences when we compare capital structure ratios using book values and market values. Overall, our results suggest that the significant variation in capital structure disclosures and measurements we identify are potentially value relevant information for users. These results also have important implications for future research.

Keywords: Capital Structure, Comparability, Disclosure, IAS 1, International, Leverage

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Entwistle, Gary M. and Entwistle, Gary M. and Elkins, Hamilton and Vaidyanathan, Ganesh and Bastiaansen, Ilona, Exploring Capital Structure: Variations in IAS 1 Disclosures of Firm Capital (January 27, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2713927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2713927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Accounting Standards Board (ASB), 2010, Financial Capital Management Disclosures. Financial Reporting Council Limited
J Berk , P Demarzo , D Stangeland
Corporate Finance. 3rd Canadian Edition Posted: 2015
M R Clayman , M S Fridson , G H Troughton
Corporate finance: A practical approach , volume 42 Posted: 2012
S S Cowen , L B Ferreri , L D Parker
The impact of corporate characteristics on social responsibility disclosure: A typology and frequency-based analysis. Accounting
Organizations and society , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 122 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
RANK
549,213
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies