Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Secrecy and the Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Earnings Quality in Europe

2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

37 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2016 Last revised: 30 Apr 2017

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Reza Monem

Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Mohammad Tareq

RMIT University

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Date Written: April 15, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on earnings quality in countries which exhibit high financial secrecy. Earnings quality is proxied by signed abnormal accruals and earnings conservatism. Using 19,324 firm-years from 14 countries over the period 1998-2011, we find that firms in a high-secrecy country tend to report higher abnormal accruals and earnings conservatism, which results in lower earnings quality. On the other hand, we find that mandatory IFRS adoption improves earnings quality by decreasing abnormal accruals and earnings conservatism. Our study provides evidence of the interaction between national culture, as indicated by secrecy, and IFRS adoption and helps to explain differences in earnings quality across different jurisdictions following IFRS adoption.

Keywords: Earnings quality; national culture; secrecy; mandatory IFRS adoption; signed abnormal accruals; earnings conservatism

JEL Classification: M41, C12, C21

Suggested Citation:

Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and Monem, Reza M. and Tareq, Mohammad and van Zijl, Tony, Secrecy and the Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Earnings Quality in Europe (April 15, 2015). 2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2716061
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Paul Andre , Andrei Filip , Luc Paugam
Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe
Forthcoming Journal of Business Finance & Accounting Pages: 44 Posted: 5 Jan 2012 Last revised: 6 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Artiach , M Clarkson
Conservatism, Disclosure and the cost of equity capital
Australian Journal of Management , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 293 - 314 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,443
RANK
368,259
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies