Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Increase Liquidity in the Canadian Stock Markets?

54 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2016 Last revised: 18 Jan 2017

Shahid Khan

Pennsylvania State University

Date Written: January 15, 2016

Abstract

In this study, we investigate whether average liquidity for non-U.S. firms traded on Canadian stock exchanges increased or decreased after mandatory adoption of IFRS in Canada. We consider two competing forces affecting liquidity from IFRS adoption: enhanced comparability of firms within industries that span international boundaries and less tailoring of financial reporting to satisfy local investor needs. We find that liquidity decreased for Canadian and non-U.S. international firms traded on the Canadian exchanges, suggesting that the benefits of global comparability were not sufficient to offset the loss of local investor accommodation. To provide perspective on these results for Canadian exchanges, we also compare liquidity before and after IFRS adoption for firms traded on the U.K. and Australian exchanges. These three countries share the British influence on financial reporting historically and have similar legal and institutional settings. We expect that the benefits of global comparability would be relatively greater for the U.K. exchanges relative to the Canadian and Australian exchanges given the U.K.’s proximity and commerce with other European countries. We find that liquidity increased for the U.K. exchanges but decreased for the Australian exchange, supporting the interpretation of the Canadian findings. We also compare changes in liquidity between the two Canadian exchanges, the more global and senior Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) and the more local and retail-oriented TSX Venture Exchange (TSXV). We find that the decrease in liquidity after IFRS adoption was significantly greater for the TSXV exchange, consistent with the trade-off between global comparability and accommodating local investor needs.

JEL Classification: IFRS, Liquidity, International Firms

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Shahid, Did Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Increase Liquidity in the Canadian Stock Markets? (January 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2716149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2716149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the U. K
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D Amiram
Financial information globalization and foreign investment decisions
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 81 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Arbel , P Strebel
The neglected and small firm effects
The Financial Review , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 201 - 218 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,159
RANK
552,835
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies