Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives Mandatory and Voluntary Risk Reporting Variations Across Germany, UK and US?

Elshandidy, T., Fraser, I., & Hussainey, K. (2015). What drives mandatory and voluntary risk reporting variations across Germany, UK, and US? The British Accounting Review, 47(4), 376-394

42 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2016

Tamer Elshandidy

Ajman University

Ian A.M. Fraser

University of Stirling - Department of Accounting and Finance

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Date Written: January 23, 2016

Abstract

This paper utilises computerised textual analysis to explore the extent to which both firm and country characteristics influence mandatory and voluntary risk reporting (MRR and VRR) variations both within and between non-financial firms across Germany, the UK and the US, over the period from 2005 to 2010. We find significant variations in MRR and VRR between firms across the three countries. Further, we find, on average, that German firms tend to disclose significantly higher (lower) levels of risk information mandatorily than UK (US) firms. German firms, on average, tend to reveal considerably higher (lower) levels of VRR than US (UK) firms. Our results document that MRR and VRR variations are significantly influenced by systematic risk, the legal system and cultural values. We also find that country and firm characteristics have higher explanatory power over the observed variations in MRR than over those in VRR.

Keywords: Automated content analysis, firm and country characteristics, mandatory and voluntary risk reporting

Suggested Citation:

Elshandidy, Tamer and Fraser, Ian A.M. and Hussainey, Khaled, What Drives Mandatory and Voluntary Risk Reporting Variations Across Germany, UK and US? (January 23, 2016). Elshandidy, T., Fraser, I., & Hussainey, K. (2015). What drives mandatory and voluntary risk reporting variations across Germany, UK, and US? The British Accounting Review, 47(4), 376-394, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2721142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 248 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Abraham , P Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk disclosure in corporate annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 462 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance worldwide: What is the trigger? Organization Studies , volume 25 , p. 415 - 443 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,942
RANK
286,507
15 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies