Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Price Models and the Value Relevance of Accounting Information of Listed Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria

8 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2016

Akeem Siyanbola

FUWUKARI; Federal University Wukari, Nigeria

Friday Ogbole

Federal University Wukari, Nigeria

Dadi Masoyi

Federal University Wukari, Nigeria

Date Written: March 11, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates the value relevance of accounting information of listed Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) in Nigeria over a period of eight years (2005-2012. Data were obtained from published financial statements of DMBs and the official daily list of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). We used a sample of eight (8) out of fifteen (15) DMBs in operation as at December 31, 2012. Regression analysis was employed in the analysis and the result shows that in general accounting information of the DMBs is relevant. We recommend greater effectiveness in the oversight function of shareholders; improvement in the regulatory functions of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the NSE and the National Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) and the keeping of more accurate accounting records to make accounting information more value relevant.

Keywords: Deposit Money Bank, Capital Market Based Accounting Research, Value Relevance

Suggested Citation:

Siyanbola, Akeem and Siyanbola, Akeem and Ogbole, Friday and Masoyi, Dadi, Price Models and the Value Relevance of Accounting Information of Listed Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (March 11, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2725530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2725530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R Abdulkadir , M A Ijaiya , A M Baffa
Dividend relevance during financial crisis: A study of quoted Nigerian banks
ADSU Journal of Accounting Research , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 20 - 29 Posted: 2013
S Abubakar
Value relevance of accounting information of listed new economy firms in Nigeria: An empirical investigation using Ohlson model. Paper presented at the International Conference on Accounting and Finance in Africa organised by the Department of Accounting and Finance Posted: 2011
M Alfaraih
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the value relevance of accounting information in emerging markets: Evidence from Kuwait Posted: 2009
Y A Babalola
Significance of accounting information on corporate values of firms in Nigeria
Research Journal in Organizational Psychology & Educational Studies , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 105 - 113 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,473
RANK
580,215
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies