Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Disclosure in Europe. Profiles of Disclosing Companies

Eastern European Business and Economics Journal. 2015, Vol. 1, Nr. 2, 32-65

34 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Nicola Giuseppe Castellano

Università degli Studi di Macerata - Department of Economics and Law

Katia Korsi

Università degli Studi di Sassari - Department of Economics and Business

Roberto Del Gobbo

Università degli Studi di Macerata - Department of Economics and Law

Date Written: November 2015

Abstract

The paper investigates the determinants of goodwill disclosure on a sample of European companies. In particular, the factors associated to particular extents of disclosure are examined.

The results provide evidence that, determinants coherent with proprietary cost theory significantly affect the extent of goodwill disclosure. Conversely the hypotheses formulated according to the signaling theory are not supported.

The methodology adopted provides meaning to relations between variables that might be robust only or particularly within a specific range of variation of the independent variables. Finally, issues of compliance due to the technical complexities of IAS 36 are documented.

Keywords: Goodwill Disclosure Determinants, Antecedents of disclosure, Goodwill Disclosure Index, Cluster Analysis

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Castellano, Nicola Giuseppe and Korsi, Katia and Del Gobbo, Roberto, Goodwill Disclosure in Europe. Profiles of Disclosing Companies (November 2015). Eastern European Business and Economics Journal. 2015, Vol. 1, Nr. 2, 32-65, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2728862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
S Armitage , C Marston
Corporate disclosure, cost of capital and reputation: evidence from finance directors
The British Accounting Review , volume 40 , p. 314 - 336 Posted: 2008
Crossref
F Avallone , A Quagli
Insight into the variables used to manage the goodwill impairment test under IAS 36
Advances in Accounting , volume 31 , p. 107 - 114 Posted: 2015
Crossref
D Baboukardos , G Rimmel
Goodwill under IFRS: Relevance and disclosures in an unfavorable environment
Accounting Forum , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2014
Crossref
B Baik , J K Kang , R Morton
Why Are Analysts Less Likely to Follow Firms with High Managerial Ownership
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 25 , p. 171 - 200 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,187
RANK
819,727
1 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies