Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Would the Differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP Affect U.S. Analyst Performance?

J. Account. Public Policy 34 (2015) 28–51

Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Ran Barniv

Kent State University - Department of Accounting

Mark Myring

Ball State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 5, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP affect forecast accuracy and other measures of analysts’ performance and if analysts with superior forecasting ability are less affected by these differences. Our unique sample consists of resided U.S. analysts who followed cross-listed firms in the U.S. and were unfamiliar with IFRS prior to its adoption but were familiar with U.S. GAAP. The main finding is that firm-specific differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP and its interaction with our superior analyst variable and other information environment characteristics significantly affect forecast accuracy in the year of IFRS adoption, but this is generally not the case in the subsequent year. We provide evidence that superior analysts gain a comparative advantage in the year of IFRS adoption but the advantage fades out in subsequent years when all analysts are trained and educated in IFRS. Similar effects are generally documented on analysts following and stock recommendations but we find no significant effects on forecast dispersion. We interpret our findings as being consistent with U.S. regulators stating that U.S. analysts will need investments in education, training, and processing the interactive IFRS data and practitioners’ predictions that analysts would quickly learn the new accounting standards.

Keywords: IFRS, U.S. GAAP, Analyst Performance, Superior Analysts

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Barniv, Ran and Myring, Mark, How Would the Differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP Affect U.S. Analyst Performance? (February 5, 2016). J. Account. Public Policy 34 (2015) 28–51, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2728522
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,482
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies