Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Comparability and Economic Outcomes of Mandatory IFRS Adoption

Contemporary Accounting Research 34 (1) (2017): 658-690

Posted: 11 Feb 2016 Last revised: 4 May 2018

Michael Neel

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 10, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the accounting mechanisms linking the widespread mandatory adoption of IFRS in 2005 to valuation, liquidity, and analyst outcomes of adoption. I partition adopter firms into treatment groups based on changes in both reporting quality and cross-country accounting comparability around adoption, and study the relative importance of the two financial statement characteristics in explaining the economic effects of adoption. I find that firms with a larger improvement in comparability have better economic outcomes following adoption relative to other adopters. This result holds for tests of firm valuations, liquidity and analyst properties. Moreover, this result holds regardless of how reporting quality changes around adoption. In contrast, improvements in reporting quality around adoption appear to have only a second-order effect that is generally limited to valuation effects for those adopters with concurrent improvements in comparability. These results are robust to alternative design and variable specifications. Finally, I continue to find these results for samples restricted to countries with weaker pre-adoption institutional environments and countries that did not initiate pro-active financial statement reviews, indicating that strong institutions and regulatory improvements are not driving the results.

Keywords: IFRS, Accounting Comparability, Valuation, Stock liquidity, Analyst forecasts

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Neel, Michael, Accounting Comparability and Economic Outcomes of Mandatory IFRS Adoption (February 10, 2016). Contemporary Accounting Research 34 (1) (2017): 658-690, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2730747
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,177
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies