Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Historical Perspectives on Accounting for M&A

41 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2016

Amir Amel-Zadeh

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Geoff Meeks

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Jaqueline Meeks

University of Cambridge - Centre for Development Studies

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This paper attempts to tease out some of the reasons why the history of M&A accounting has been so fraught. It compares the different M&A accounting regimes which have been tried over time in UK, US and international standards. It illustrates the quantitative impact of alternative accounting regimes on financial statements. It asks whether the resulting numbers make any difference to decisions and behaviour. It charts the rising scale of M&A expenditures which have accompanied the different accounting regimes. And it suggests that a number of historical developments have intensified the challenges posed by accounting for M&A – developments in firms’ investment choice between M&A or new tangibles, in the role of intangibles, in means of payment for M&A, in stock market price movements, in the synergies created by M&A, and in “creative accounting.”

Keywords: M&A accounting, intangibles, M&A financing, creative accounting

JEL Classification: G24, K22, L25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Amel-Zadeh, Amir and Meeks, Geoff and Meeks, Jaqueline, Historical Perspectives on Accounting for M&A (2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732253 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2732253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
For discussion of such difficulties with accounts see, for example
Caves Posted: 1981
the estimated annual efficiency losses [attributed to US mergers] are in the range of 0.59 to 0.81 percent of current-dollar gross national product" (RS); "Much of the evidence reviewed above [19 studies] indicates that many mergers generate neither efficiency gains nor market power
UK "acquisitions have
US acquiring firm shareholders lost 12 cents at the announcement of acquisitions for every dollar spent … from 1998 through 2001, whereas they lost ,, in all of the 1980s 1.6 cents per dollar spent … the losses of bidders exceed the gains of targets from Posted: 1998
Load more
1 Citations
Kevin Li , Geoff Meeks
Seventy Years of Accounting Standards for M&A
26 Pages · Posted: 15 Feb 2017 · Downloads: 312
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,096
RANK
270,901
1 Citations
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies