Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economics of Disclosure and Financial Reporting Regulation: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 306/2016

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 16-03

143 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2016 Last revised: 9 Mar 2016

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Peter D. Wysocki

Boston University Questrom School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper discusses the empirical literature on the economic consequences of disclosure and financial reporting regulation (including IFRS adoption), drawing on U.S. and international evidence. Given the policy relevance of research on regulation, we highlight the challenges with: (i) quantifying regulatory costs and benefits, (ii) measuring disclosure and reporting outcomes, and (iii) drawing causal inferences from regulatory studies. Next, we discuss empirical studies that link disclosure and reporting activities to firm-specific and market-wide economic outcomes. Understanding these links is important when evaluating regulation. We then synthesize the empirical evidence on the economic effects of disclosure regulation and reporting standards, including the evidence on IFRS adoption. Several important conclusions emerge. We generally lack evidence on market-wide effects and externalities from regulation, yet such evidence is central to the economic justification of regulation. Moreover, evidence on causal effects of disclosure and reporting regulation is still relatively rare. We also lack evidence on the real effects of such regulation. These limitations provide many research opportunities. We conclude with several specific suggestions for future research.

Keywords: Transparency, Regulation, Accounting standards, Capital markets, Institutional economics, International accounting, Disclosure, IFRS, Political economy, Cost-benefit analysis, Real effects

JEL Classification: D78, D82, G14, G18, G30, G38, K22, K42, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Leuz, Christian and Wysocki, Peter D., The Economics of Disclosure and Financial Reporting Regulation: Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research (December 1, 2015). European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 306/2016, Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 16-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2733831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2733831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,345
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,006
RANK
5,330
239 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies