Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implications of the Cash Component of Earnings for Earnings Persistence and Stock Returns

The British Accounting Review, Vol. 48, pp. 117-133, 2016

Posted: 27 Feb 2016 Last revised: 9 Mar 2016

Panagiotis Artikis

University of Piraeus

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: February 27, 2016

Abstract

The main objective of this paper is to examine the persistence, pricing and economic significance of the cash component of earnings in U.K. listed firms from 1981 to 2013. In so doing, we break down the cash component of earnings into changes in the cash balance and into issuances/distributions to debtholders and equity holders. We find that the cash component of earnings is more persistent than the accrual component and that this higher persistence can be attributed primarily to cash distributed to equity holders. Cash retained by the firm as changes in the cash balance also appears to be more persistent than accruals, whereas cash attributed to debtholders has approximately the same persistence level as accruals. The results from our pricing models support the naïve investor hypothesis and show both that future stock returns have the strongest positive correlation with the most persistent cash subcomponent of earnings and that investors can devise a profitable investment strategy by investing in companies that have high cash distributions to equity holders. Our results are consistent across subperiods – when controlling for changes in financial reporting standards and the economic environment – and across different size groupings.

Keywords: Earnings, Cash flows, Profitability, Stock Returns, U.K.

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Artikis, Panagiotis and Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., Implications of the Cash Component of Earnings for Earnings Persistence and Stock Returns (February 27, 2016). The British Accounting Review, Vol. 48, pp. 117-133, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2739089
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,159
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies