Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Institutional Ownership and the Global Convergence of Financial Reporting Practices

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 53, No. 3, 2015

Posted: 3 Mar 2016 Last revised: 15 Aug 2016

Vivian W. Fang

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Indiana University

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates whether foreign institutional investors affect the global convergence of financial reporting practices. Using several measures of reporting convergence, we show that U.S. institutional ownership is positively associated with subsequent changes in emerging market firms' accounting comparability to their U.S. industry peers. We identify this association using an instrumental variable approach that exploits exogenous variation in U.S. institutional investment generated by the JGTRRA Act of 2003. Further, we provide evidence of a specific mechanism — the switch to a Big Four audit firm — through which U.S. institutional investors affect reporting convergence. Finally, we show that, for emerging market firms, an increase in comparability to U.S. firms is associated with an improvement in the properties of foreign analysts' forecasts.

Keywords: Institutional Investors; Mutual Funds; Corporate Governance; U.S. GAAP; Financial Statement Comparability; Auditor Selection; Analyst Forecasts

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Vivian W. and Maffett, Mark G. and Zhang, Bohui, Foreign Institutional Ownership and the Global Convergence of Financial Reporting Practices (June 1, 2015). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 53, No. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2741146
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,099
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies