Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attitudes Towards Tax Evasion in Turkey and Australia: A Comparative Study

Social Sciences, 2016

13 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2016

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Ken Devos

Monash Business School

Serkan Benk

Inonu University

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

The authors conducted a survey of 502 Turkish and Australian undergraduate and graduate business and economic students to determine their views regarding the ethics of tax evasion. These two groups were selected on the premise that their views represented the perceptions of two very different cultures, which has not been investigated in previous studies. The survey instrument required students to indicate their level of agreeableness to 18 general statements representing various scenarios in the socio-economic environment. The statements in the survey reflected the three main viewpoints regarding the ethics of tax evasion which have emerged from the literature to date. The results of the study show that although Turkish scores are significantly different from the Australian scores, both Turkish and Australian respondents believe that tax evasion can be ethically justifiable in certain situations, although some arguments are stronger than others.

Keywords: tax evasion, ethics, Australia, Turkey, cultural differences, demographics, gender, age

JEL Classification: H26, J1, K34, K42, M41, O52, O53, O56

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Devos, Ken and Benk, Serkan, Attitudes Towards Tax Evasion in Turkey and Australia: A Comparative Study (March 1, 2016). Social Sciences, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2741308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Neil Brooks , Anthony N Doob
Tax Evasion: Searching for a Theory of Compliant Behaviour
Securing Compliance: Seven Case Studies Posted: 1990
Crossref
Hughlene A Burton , S Stewart , Cynthia Karlinsky , Blanthorne
Perception of White-Collar Crime: Tax Evasion
Journal of Legal Tax Research , volume 3 , p. 35 - 48 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Gerrit Antonides , Henry S J Robben
True Positives and False Alarms in the Detection of Tax Evasion
Journal of Public Psychology , volume 16 , p. 617 - 657 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Ranjana Gupta , Robert Mcgee
Study on Tax Evasion Perceptions in Australasia
Australian Tax Forum , volume 25 , p. 507 - 541 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,712
RANK
359,301
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies