Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Lot of Icing But Little Cake? Taking Integrated Reporting Forward

Journal of Cleaner Production, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2016

Paolo Perego

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano

Steve Kennedy

RSM Erasmus University

Gail Whiteman

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Department of Business and Society Management

Date Written: February 17, 2016

Abstract

Integrated reporting has fast emerged as a new accounting practice to help firms understand how they create value and be able to effectively communicate this to external stakeholders. While insightful experiences from the early-adopters of integrated reporting start to accumulate, the development of the field and how integrated reporting may be successfully implemented remains challenging and contested. Several issues are still controversial with no consensus reached on the central purpose about integrated reporting. This paper relies upon a qualitative approach to accomplish two objectives. First, we provide a review of the embryonic academic literature in the integrated reporting field in order to summarize extant knowledge. Second, in response to a gap in the literature on managerial perceptions concerning integrated reporting, we present the sensemaking approaches of three key experts impacting integrated reporting practices at the global level using semi-structured interviews. Our findings suggest that experts perceive the field to be fragmented and believe that most companies currently have weak understanding of the business value of integrated reporting. The experts give insights into how they perceive the field to be progressing despite challenges and on where they see improvements in the diffusion of practices in integrated reporting. Our study contributes to this special issue by reframing the existing implementation challenges of integrated reporting into promising and inclusive research opportunities that align the priorities of both academia and business.

Keywords: Integrated Reporting, IIRC, Corporate Sustainability Reporting, materiality, organizational sensemaking

Suggested Citation:

Perego, Paolo and Kennedy, Steve and Whiteman, Gail, A Lot of Icing But Little Cake? Taking Integrated Reporting Forward (February 17, 2016). Journal of Cleaner Production, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2744822 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2744822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
C A Adams
Understanding Integrated Reporting: The concise guide to integrated thinking and the future of corporate reporting Posted: 2013
L Argote , E Spektor
Organizational learning: From experience to knowledge
Organization Science , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 1123 - 1137 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Markus C. Arnold , Alexander Bassen , Ralf Frank
Integrating Sustainability Reports into Financial Statements: An Experimental Study
Pages: 44 Posted: 29 Mar 2012 Last revised: 11 Jan 2023
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Arvidsson
Corporate social responsibility and stock market actors: A comprehensive study
Social Responsibility Journal , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 210 - 225 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,368
RANK
202,849
18 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies