Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Performance of Global Information and Communication Technology Companies

2012. Journal of Information Systems 26 (2): 119-152

Posted: 10 Mar 2016

Tim Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Bruce Dehning

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros College of Business and Economics

Theophanis C. Stratopoulos

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 1, 2012

Abstract

This study examines the cross-sectional financial performance among firms from the global information and communication technology (ICT) sector over the period 1998-2007. Using a pooled linear regression, the results show that U.S.-based ICT companies are on average underperforming the rest of the world after controlling for firm-specific variables known to affect firm financial performance. The results also show that characteristics of the firm's host country explain a statistically significant portion of the variation in firm performance, incremental to firm-level characteristics. More specifically, firms located in countries with attractive tax environments and high-government subsidies outperform their competitors in countries with less attractive tax environments and subsidies. Firms in financial markets that provide ICT firms with relatively favorable cost of capital underperform those in markets with a cost of capital less conducive to business development, which may suggest the cost of capital attracts new market competition that reduces overall profit. Countries with the best performing ICT firms are those with the highest industry focus, where a few industries dominate rather than an even distribution of firms across a broad range of industries. The findings have important implications for policymakers, business strategists, and investors.

Keywords: financial performance, tax environment, cost of capital, industry focus, information and communication technology industry

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Tim and Dehning, Bruce and Stratopoulos, Theophanis C., The Financial Performance of Global Information and Communication Technology Companies (June 1, 2012). 2012. Journal of Information Systems 26 (2): 119-152, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2745627
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,155
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies