Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS – Ten Years Later

Accounting and Business Research vol 46 (5)

53 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2016 Last revised: 9 Jul 2016

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: April 15, 2016

Abstract

A decade ago, the near-simultaneous adoption of IFRS in over one hundred countries could fairly have been described as a “brave new world” in financial reporting. Any systems innovation, and especially an innovation of such importance and magnitude, thrusts those involved (companies, users and accountants) into the unknown. There was good reason to expect success, based largely on widespread enthusiasm for international standards and, behind that, recognition of the strong forces of globalization. Nevertheless, there were risks involved and there was limited a priori evidence to guide the decision makers. A decade later, this is still the case. Globalization remains a potent economic and political force, and drives the demand for globalization in accounting. Nevertheless, most political and commercial activity remains local, so adoption of uniform rules does not by itself lead to uniform reporting behavior around the world. For many of the claimed benefits of IFRS adoption to be realized, uniform implementation would have to occur in a wide range of countries, which seems unlikely and requires more than simply creating regulatory enforcement mechanisms. Some evidence of actual outcomes from IFRS adoption has come to light but, as will be argued below, by and large the evidence to date is not very useful. The IASB’s valuation-centric Conceptual Framework leads it to pay little or no heed to the use of accounting information in contracting, despite the lip service recent amendments pay to even the narrower notion of stewardship. So IFRS adoption is an innovation of historical proportions whose worldwide effects remain somewhat uncertain. The essay concludes with comments on the status of China and the US.

Keywords: Conceptual Framework, Contracting, Enforcement, Fair Value, IFRS, Stewardship, Transparency, Unintended Consequences

JEL Classification: G15, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray, IFRS – Ten Years Later (April 15, 2016). Accounting and Business Research vol 46 (5), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2745245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2745245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Foreningen af Statsautoriserede Revisor, Deutsches Rechnungslegungs Standards Committee, Komitet Standardów Rachunkowości and EFRAG
Stewardship/Accountability as an Objective of Financial Reporting: A comment on the IASB/FASB Conceptual Framework Project. Posted on each body's website Posted: 2007
A ; B Ahmed , M Billings; R. Morton; , Stanford-Harris
The Role of Accounting Conservatism in Mitigating Bondholder-Shareholder Conflicts over Dividend Policy and in Reducing Debt Costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 867 - 90 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J K Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' Demand for Conservatism: Evidence from Changes in Directors' Fiduciary Duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Ball
Making accounting more international: Why, how, and how far will it go
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 8 , p. 19 - 29 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,898
RANK
32,983
12 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies