Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Output-Based Measurement of Financial Statement Comparability: A Survey of Empirical Proxies

Journal of Accounting Literature, Vol. 39, December 2017, pp. 1-22.

63 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2016 Last revised: 7 Jul 2022

Christian Gross

University of Graz

Pietro Perotti

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: September 27, 2017

Abstract

Accounting comparability has been the subject of significant interest in empirical financial accounting research. Recent literature, particularly that following De Franco et al.’s (2011) influential study, has focused on utilizing the output of the financial reporting process to measure accounting comparability. In this paper, we conduct an early survey of studies using output-based measures of comparability. We provide two distinct contributions to the literature. First, we describe and comment on four important measurement concepts as well as the studies that introduced them. With this methodological contribution, we aim to facilitate the measurement choice for empirical accounting researchers engaged in comparability research. Second, we classify the sub-streams of literature and related studies. In providing this content-related contribution, we sum up what has already been achieved in output-based accounting comparability research and highlight potential areas for prospective research. As a whole, our study attempts to guide empirical researchers who (plan to) undertake studies on accounting comparability in selecting relevant topics and choosing adequate approaches to measurement.

Keywords: Comparability, Harmonization, Measurement, Empirical Financial Accounting, Survey

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gross, Christian and Perotti, Pietro, Output-Based Measurement of Financial Statement Comparability: A Survey of Empirical Proxies (September 27, 2017). Journal of Accounting Literature, Vol. 39, December 2017, pp. 1-22. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2747413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2747413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
M J Ali
A Synthesis of Empirical Research on International Accounting Harmonization and Compliance with Financial Reporting Standards
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 24 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2005
R C Baker , E M Barbu
Evolution of research on international accounting harmonization: a historical and institutional perspective
Socio-Economic Review , volume 5 , p. 603 - 632 Posted: 2007
R C Baker , E M Barbu
Trends in research on international accounting harmonization
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 42 , p. 272 - 304 Posted: 2007
R Ball
IFRS: Pros and cons for investors
Supplement 1) , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
406
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,935
RANK
165,762
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies