Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Country- and Firm-Level Determinants in Environmental, Social, and Governance Disclosure

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2016 Last revised: 18 Oct 2017

Maria Baldini

University of Florence - Department of Economics and Management

Lorenzo Dal Maso

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Giovanni Liberatore

University of Florence - Department of Business Economics

Francesco Mazzi

University of Florence - Department of Business Economics

Simone Terzani

University of Perugia - Department of Economics

Date Written: March 24, 2016

Abstract

In recent years, companies receive pressure to release environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure, since these are perceived as critical issues by society. Despite this pressure, ESG disclosure practices considerably vary by firm. Prior academic literature investigated country- and firm-level factors determining such variation, alternatively adopting the institutional and legitimacy theory. By combining these theories in a unique framework, this study investigates the extent to which social structures (i.e., institutional theory) and social legitimization (i.e., legitimacy theory) influence ESG disclosure practices and each pillar. Results obtained using a cross-country sample of 14,174 firm-year observations during 2005–2012 provide evidence that country-level characteristics such as a political system (Legal Framework and Corruption), labor system (Labor Protection and Unemployment Rate), and cultural system (Social Cohesion and Equal Opportunities) significantly affect firms’ ESG disclosure practices. However, their impact is heterogeneous in that they either reduce or enhance disclosure levels and may differ by pillar. Results for firm-level characteristics related to a firm’s visibility (Analysts Coverage, Cross Listing, Leverage, and Size) demonstrate a positive and homogeneous effect on ESG disclosure and each pillar. These results inform policy makers and regulators aiming to enhance ESG disclosure levels of the risk they incur when managing variables related to social structure and the benefits of exposing firms to higher visibility.

Keywords: country-specific determinants, ESG disclosure, firm-specific determinants, institutional theory, legitimacy theory

JEL Classification: M14, M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Baldini, Maria and Dal Maso, Lorenzo and Liberatore, Giovanni and Mazzi, Francesco and Terzani, Simone, Role of Country- and Firm-Level Determinants in Environmental, Social, and Governance Disclosure (March 24, 2016). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2753974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
C A Adams , W Y Hill , C B Roberts
Corporate social reporting practices in Western Europe: Legitimating corporate behaviour?
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1998
Crossref
B C Adi , K M Amaeshi , O O Amao , C Ogbechie
Corporate social responsibility in Nigeria: Western mimicry or indigenous influences
Journal of Corporate Citizenship , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 99 Posted: 2006
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: Dimensions and determinants
The Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
397
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,923
RANK
170,122
45 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies