Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-GAAP Earnings: A Consistency and Comparability Crisis?

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2759312

46 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2016 Last revised: 1 Dec 2020

Dirk E. Black

Iowa State University - College of Business

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Jack T. Ciesielski

R.G. Associates

Benjamin C. Whipple

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 17, 2020

Abstract

We use a novel dataset to examine the across-time consistency and across-firm comparability of firms’ non-GAAP earnings disclosures. We begin by identifying firms that change their non-GAAP earnings definition from one year to the next. These deviations are uncommon, but when managers change the items they exclude in calculating non-GAAP earnings, the changes generally enhance the information in earnings about firms’ core performance. We also examine whether non-GAAP earnings are more comparable than GAAP earnings and find that firms’ non-GAAP adjustments result in greater earnings comparability. Finally, we examine instances in which firms deviate from common sector-wide definitions of non-GAAP earnings. We find that these deviations also result in earnings metrics that better represent firms’ core operations. Overall, our results suggest that when managers vary their non-GAAP calculations, either across time or across firms, the resulting non GAAP metrics generally enhance the information in earnings about firms’ ongoing performance.

Keywords: Non-GAAP earnings, reporting consistency, earnings comparability

JEL Classification: G14, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Black, Dirk E. and Christensen, Theodore E. and Ciesielski, Jack T. and Whipple, Benjamin C., Non-GAAP Earnings: A Consistency and Comparability Crisis? (October 17, 2020). Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2759312, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2759312 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2759312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
B Alpert
The numbers game: Reporting of pro forma earnings is rising, and so is the debate about it
Barrons Posted: 2000-03-21
B Baik , B Billings , R Morton
Reliability and transparency of non-GAAP disclosures by real estate investment trusts (REITs)
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2008
J Bentley , T Christensen , K Gee , B Whipple
Disentangling managers' and analysts' non-GAAP reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
N Bhattacharya , E Black , T Christensen , C Larson
Assessing the relative informativeness and permanence of pro forma earnings and GAAP operating earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 285 - 319 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,114
RANK
14,143
40 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies