Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Are Tax Havens and Why Are They Bad?

95 Texas Law Review 59 (2016)

21 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2016 Last revised: 14 Dec 2016

Conor Clarke

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law

Date Written: April 6, 2016

Abstract

This essay reviews Gabriel Zucman's The Hidden Wealth of Nations: The Scourge of Tax Havens. Zucman's important new book brings clarity to a confusing subject -- but occasionally does so at the expense of nuance. My review has three goals. First, I summarize and appraise Zucman's central findings, and re-estimate his revenue-loss totals for the United States using tax-rate assumptions that I believe are more realistic. Second, I position Zucman's findings against the backdrop of the wider literatures on tax havens and inequality, and attempt to answer the two questions in this essay's title. Third, I comment on Zucman's call for a global registry covering the ownership of financial securities. I argue that such a proposal must contend with the fact that there is no international legal consensus on what constitutes ownership.

Keywords: Tax, Tax Law, Tax Havens, Inequality

Suggested Citation:

Clarke, Conor, What Are Tax Havens and Why Are They Bad? (April 6, 2016). 95 Texas Law Review 59 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2759521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Piketty See
Individualism and selfishness would flourish: since the system as a whole would be unjust, why continue to pay for others?"). This is not to suggest that fiscal consent is the only reason Piketty objects to inequality. See, e.g., Liam Murphy, Why Does Inequality Matter?: Reflections on the Political Morality of Piketty's Capital in the Twenty-First Century, 68 TAX L. REV
If taxation at the top of the social hierarchy were to become more regressive in the future , volume 613 Posted: 2015
E G See , Daron Acemoglu
Democracy, Redistribution and Inequality , volume 1 Posted: 2013
PIKETTY, supra note 12, at 259 ("[W]ealth is so concentrated that a large segment of society is virtually unaware of its existence
For a snowflake-sized tip of the iceberg, see Vladimir Gimpelson & Daniel Treisman Posted: 2015
Load more
1 Citations
Robert Kudrle
The Continuing Turmoil in International Business Taxation
54 Pages · Posted: 4 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 63
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,341
RANK
185,220
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies