Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption in ASEAN Countries: Perceptions of Professional Accountants from Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia

(2016) Vol no. 12(2) International Journal of Managerial Finance pp.211-240

Posted: 19 Apr 2016

Mahesh Joshi

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

P. W. S. Yapa

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Accounting and Law

Diane Kraal

Monash University - Monash Business School

Date Written: January 4, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the perceptions of professional accountants from three countries from the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) in order to evaluate their perceived benefits associated with the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in their respective nations as well as the implications of these standards for the accounting and auditing professions in their country of practice. It also explores the extent to which the adoption of IAS/IFRS accounting standards have been supported by the state, media and local professional accounting bodies. The study uses a survey approach.

Keywords: Harmonization, IFRS adoption, ASEAN countries

Suggested Citation:

Joshi, Mahesh and Yapa, P. W. S. and Kraal, Diane, IFRS Adoption in ASEAN Countries: Perceptions of Professional Accountants from Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia (January 4, 2016). (2016) Vol no. 12(2) International Journal of Managerial Finance pp.211-240 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2767265
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,893
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies