Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Substantial Convergence of Chinese Accounting Standards with IFRS and the Managerial Pay-for-Accounting Performance Sensitivity of Publicly Listed Chinese Firms

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2016

Bin Ke

National University of Singapore; Independent

Yubo Li

Shanghai University

Hongqi Yuan

Fudan University - School of Management

Date Written: April 23, 2016

Abstract

We examine how China’s adoption of a new set of Chinese Accounting Standards (CAS) that is substantially converged with the IFRS affects the managerial pay-for-accounting performance sensitivity of publicly listed Chinese firms. We find that central-government-controlled firms adopted an economically significant managerial pay-for-accounting performance sensitivity prior to the new CAS adoption. However, the pay-for-accounting performance sensitivity declined significantly after the new CAS adoption, especially for central-government-controlled firms that were more significantly affected by the new CAS adoption. We do not find similar evidence for local-government-controlled firms whose managers were not subject to economically significant pay-for-accounting performance sensitivity prior to the new CAS adoption. There is no evidence that the difference in results between the two types of firms is due to confounding events. Overall, our results suggest that China’s new CAS adoption reduces the stewardship usefulness of financial reporting.

Keywords: IFRS; executive compensation; stewardship; China

JEL Classification: J33; K20; M41

Suggested Citation:

Ke, Bin and Li, Yubo and Yuan, Hongqi, The Substantial Convergence of Chinese Accounting Standards with IFRS and the Managerial Pay-for-Accounting Performance Sensitivity of Publicly Listed Chinese Firms (April 23, 2016). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2769433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
Eur. Account. Rev , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 35 - 78 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunneling as an Incentive for Earnings Management during the IPO Process in China
J. Account. Public Pol , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemp. Account. Res , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors
Account. Bus. Res , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Mark DeFond , Jinshuai Hu , Mingyi Hung , Siqi Li
The Effect of Fair Value Accounting on the Performance Evaluation Role of Earnings
54 Pages · Posted: 17 Oct 2019 · Last revised: 26 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 635
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fuad Fuad , Agung Juliarto , Puji Harto
Does IFRS Convergence Really Increase Accounting Qualities? Emerging Market Evidence
Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 24, No. 48, 2019 · 16 Pages · Posted: 9 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 90
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,249
RANK
303,670
2 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies