Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Responsiveness as a Challenge for the Legitimacy of the IASB - An Evaluation of Current International Accounting Regulation and of Alternative Approaches

38 Pages Posted: 1 May 2016

Karsten Eisenschmidt

Fachhochschule Kiel: University of Applied Sciences

Matthias Schmidt

University of Leipzig - Chair of Financial Accounting and Auditing

Date Written: April 29, 2016

Abstract

The article addresses the legitimacy of global accounting regulation. In line with other approaches, we relate the legitimacy of standard setting by the IASB to the process of standard development. We argue that the provision of procedural elements in the standard setting process that assure responsiveness vis-á-vis constituents is the key to legitimacy. While this perception is still in line with other, particularly economic, approaches we further elaborate a clearer conception of what is meant by responsiveness. We therefore utilize a sociological framework that analyses standard setting processes as stable social systems and is based on the work of Luhmann (1983). Against this backdrop, we analyse the current due process of the IASB as well as the endorsement process for IFRS within the EU. We further discuss whether specific market approaches to standard setting offer process alternatives that comply with our theoretical framework. Each of the market approaches offers different procedural elements to assure responsiveness. However, we will show that a distinguishing element of stable regulation processes in this regard is missing in most of the analysed procedures. Since this element requires to tie norm development to the political process, we carefully draw sceptical conclusions for the future of global accounting regulation.

Keywords: due process of the IASB, global accounting regulation, legitimacy of the IASB, prediction markets, participation, responsiveness

JEL Classification: G10, G18, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eisenschmidt, Karsten and Schmidt, Matthias, Responsiveness as a Challenge for the Legitimacy of the IASB - An Evaluation of Current International Accounting Regulation and of Alternative Approaches (April 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2772445 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2772445
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,111
RANK
297,327
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies