Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theoretical Framework for the Unintended Effects of Accounting Standards Reforms

35 Pages Posted: 5 May 2016

Xianzhi Zhang

Donbei University of Finance and Economics

Chao Yan

Independent

Date Written: February 2016

Abstract

Accounting standards reforms not only have intended effects on financial reports and capital market, but also exert significant unintended effects on firm’s contracts, business operations, investment, economy and society as a whole. The history of accounting standards, economic consequences and externality theory all raise a requirement to distinguish between intended and unintended effects of accounting standards reforms. We generate a theoretical framework for the unintended effects of accounting standards reforms based on the objectives of accounting standards and related empirical evidence. The framework includes the unrealized intended effects, the subsequent-indirect effects, the beyond-objective effects and the prior effects. Our study pays particular attention to China because its economic system provides a special example to explore some different effects of accounting standards reforms. We also provide specific avenues for future research in this field on both micro-level and macro-level. Our framework has implications for defining the essence and scope of accounting, expanding the field of accounting research, and also for accounting standards improvement.

Keywords: accounting standards reforms; Chinese accounting standards; IFRS; unintended effects; economic consequences; externality

JEL Classification: G18, M41, M48, N25, P31

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Xianzhi and Yan, Chao, A Theoretical Framework for the Unintended Effects of Accounting Standards Reforms (February 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2775521 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2775521
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
168 References
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372
Crossref
R Ball , X I Li , L Shivakumar
Contractibility and Transparency of Financial Statement Information Prepared Under IFRS: Evidence from Debt Contracts Around IFRS Adoption
J]. Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 5 , p. 915 - 963 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R D Banker , R Huang , R Natarajan
Incentive Contracting and Value Relevance of Earnings and Cash Flows
J]. Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 647 - 678 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,759
RANK
331,643
168 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies