Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Ownership and Financial Reporting Quality in Private Subsidiaries

REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 6 May 2016 Last revised: 12 Oct 2017

Belen Gill-de-Albornoz

Jaume I University - Department of Finance and Accounting

Simona Rusanescu

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business, Department of Accounting and Auditing

Date Written: October 09, 2017

Abstract

In a sample of large private Spanish subsidiaries, we find that the magnitude of discretionary accruals is significantly higher when the parent company is foreign than when it is local. Our tests support the thesis of recent research on earnings management strategies within multinational corporations (MNCs), suggesting that the parent company’s incentives underlie the observed negative relation between foreign ownership and financial reporting quality at the subsidiary level. In particular, we find that: (1) the tenure of the controlling shareholder has a negative incremental effect on financial reporting quality in firms under foreign control, as opposed to subsidiaries of local groups; and (2) the negative association between foreign ownership and financial reporting quality is mainly driven by the subsample of subsidiaries with parent companies located in countries with higher institutional quality than Spain.

Keywords: foreign ownership; private firms; subsidiaries; earnings management; discretionary accruals; institutional quality

JEL Classification: F23, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gill de Albornoz Noguer, Belen and Rusanescu, Simona, Foreign Ownership and Financial Reporting Quality in Private Subsidiaries (October 09, 2017). REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2776596 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2776596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y An
Does foreign ownership increase financial reporting quality?
Asian Academy of Management Journal , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 81 - 101 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L Arnedo , F Lizarraga , S Sánchez-Alegría
Does public/private status affect the level of earnings management in code-law contexts outside the United States? A study based on the Spanish case
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 328 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,253
RANK
361,062
4 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies