Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interim Financial Reporting and Compliance with IAS 34: The Case of the Jordanian Financial Sector

Alsharairi, M., Al-Hamadeen, R., Issa, F. and Kakish, O. (2015) “Interim Financial Reporting and Compliance with IAS 34: The Case of the Jordanian Financial Sector” International Journal of Business and Social Science. 6 (11): pp. 100-109

10 Pages Posted: 12 May 2016 Last revised: 13 May 2016

Malek Alsharairi

German Jordanian University (GJU)

Radhi Al-Hamadeen

Princess Sumaya University for Technology

Frances Issa

PricewaterhouseCoopers

Oday Kakish

Deloitte & Touche GmbH - Jordan Office

Date Written: November 10, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates the nature of the Interim Financial Reporting (IFR) and the degree of compliance with the disclosure requirements of IAS 34 by the financial-based public listed companies. Attention in this research has been given to examine nature of the IFR practice, and whether the level of disclosure in interim financial reports is influenced by a group of factors, such as: age, market capitalization, and sub-sector of the reporting company. Data was gathered from the interim financial reports of 104 companies listed in Amman Stock Exchange (ASE) for the financial year 2012. The researchers employ a research index with 21 items related to both general disclosures and technical disclosures required by the IAS 34 (Interim Financial Reporting). The results reveal that 75.2% of the companies do comply with the general part of the research index, and 85.1% to the technical part. The findings of this study reveal that a significant relationship exists between the sub-sector of a company and the level of both; general and technical disclosure, in its interim financial reports. On the contrary, no relationships could be found between the financial firm's age and its size neither with the general disclosure part, nor with the technical one.

Keywords: IAS 34, Interim Financial Reporting, Jordan, Financial Sector, Disclosure Index

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Alsharairi, Malek Ahmad and Al-Hamadeen, Radhi and Issa, Frances and Kakish, Oday, Interim Financial Reporting and Compliance with IAS 34: The Case of the Jordanian Financial Sector (November 10, 2015). Alsharairi, M., Al-Hamadeen, R., Issa, F. and Kakish, O. (2015) “Interim Financial Reporting and Compliance with IAS 34: The Case of the Jordanian Financial Sector” International Journal of Business and Social Science. 6 (11): pp. 100-109, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , J Espejot
Expectations Data and the Predictive Value of Interim Reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1978
Crossref
R Al-Hamadeen , S Badran
Nature and Determinants of CSR Disclosure: Experience of the Jordanian Public Shareholding Companies
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 6 , issue 13 , p. 18 - 34 Posted: 2014
Malek Ahmad Alsharairi , Riyadh Jasim Al-Abdullah
The Impact of Adopting IASs on the Jordanian Environment: The Perspective of Accountants, Auditors and Academicians 'An Exploratory Study'
International Conference on Business Globalization: Challenges and Opportunities in the 21st Centry Pages: 36 Posted: 19 Nov 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
N S Bayoud , M Kavanagh , G Slaughter
Factors Influencing Levels of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure by Libyan Firms: A Mixed Study
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 13 - 29 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,555
RANK
261,451
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies