Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Team Play for Stretching IFRS: The New Institutional Earnings Management

Posted: 9 May 2016

Francesco Avallone

Università degli Studi di Genova; Università degli Studi di Genova

Costanza Di Fabio

Università degli Studi di Genova

Alberto Quagli

Università degli Studi di Genova

Paola Ramassa

Università degli Studi di Genova

Date Written: May 9, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the current IFRS enforcement system at a supra-national level can prevent opportunistic behaviors at a national level that conflict with the major objectives of accounting harmonization. In this perspective, it identifies a new type of earnings management, new institutional earnings management (NIEM), based on inter-firm cooperation arising in the interstices existing between formal institutions’ scopes.

The paper adopts new institutional accounting as a theoretical framework, and broadens the research scope to explain the interactions between players, observed as formal and informal institutions. Through this theoretical lens, this paper presents the case study of the Bank of Italy share revaluation within the EU IFRS enforcement system.

The case illustrates the complex interactions among all key actors at different levels: (i) preparers; (ii) their industry association; (iii) a national state; (iv) national and European enforcers; and (v) national and international standard setters. The analysis indicates that NIEM can occur in interstices between formal institutions under given circumstances, such as interpretation uncertainties of IFRS, cooperation between formal and informal institutions (at a national level), and weaknesses of accounting enforcement (at a supra-national level). Given the global relevance of IFRS in the accounting harmonization process, this study’s findings have important implications both for accounting scholars and for regulators.

Keywords: IFRS, enforcement, new institutional accounting, earnings management

JEL Classification: M41, M48, E58, G21

Suggested Citation:

Avallone, Francesco and Di Fabio, Costanza and Quagli, Alberto and Ramassa, Paola, Team Play for Stretching IFRS: The New Institutional Earnings Management (May 9, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777626
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,188
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies