Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Development of Account and Financial Statement Report Methods of Operations Formulating Economic Result from Biotransformation of Poultry Biological Assets

Russian Timiryasev State Agricultural University “Accounting in Agriculture” (2015) No. 12. pp. 7-17

11 Pages Posted: 22 May 2016

Lyudmila Khoruzhy

Russian State Agrarian University-Moscow Agricultural Timiryazev Academy

U. Dietch

Russian State Agrarian University-Moscow Agricultural Timiryazev Academy

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The article touches the features of income, expenses and financial results accounting from biotransformation of biological assets, as well as the formation of accounting (financial) statements, and problems of assets evaluation in the poultry industry.

The authors of the article argue and prove that current assets evaluation methods are incomplete as they do not indicate a clear purpose and do not provide a reliable measurement concept. The term "fair value" will solve the problem.

Considering the accounting and financial result reports from the biological assets and agricultural produce after their fair value measurement the authors think that it is necessary to introduce additional accounts in the working bookkeeping chart of the investigated poultry farms: Account 92 "Gains and losses resulting from the biotransformation of biological assets", which are identified by comparison of the potential and fair financial results (profit, loss) account; Account 93 "Gains and losses from biotransformation of biological assets; Account 95 "Total gains and losses from biotransformation of biological assets". Synthetic account 12 "Biological assets of poultry" is supposed to be used to account biological assets of poultry (birds, their weight gain and live weight). It is recommended to use concurrently existing and special methods of income, expenses and financial results accounting: the valid method - in order to create a report on farm financial results; and a proposed one - in order to create a special reference - an appendix to the report about farm financial results from biological assets biotransformation.

For the full value realization of farm accounting (financial) statements it is proposed to amend the poultry farm balance sheet: in the first section of the poultry firm balance it is necessary to point out 'non-current biological assets' as a separate article in the assets and to exclude article 1160 ‘Income-bearing investments in tangible assets", due to the absence of income-bearing investments in tangible assets in poultry enterprises; in the second section of the balance sheet it is necessary to highlight the article "Current biological assets and agricultural produce" in reserves composition (Article 1210). In addition, the balance of current and non-current biological assets and agricultural produce should be measured at fair value.

Keywords: biotransformation, fair value of assets, evaluation, poultry

JEL Classification: Q1

Suggested Citation:

Khoruzhy, Lyudmila and Dietch, U., Development of Account and Financial Statement Report Methods of Operations Formulating Economic Result from Biotransformation of Poultry Biological Assets (2015). Russian Timiryasev State Agricultural University “Accounting in Agriculture” (2015) No. 12. pp. 7-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2780843
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Guidelines on accounting of production costs and calculation of cost of goods (works, services) in the agricultural organizations [electronic resource]: approved. by order of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Russian Federation from June 6 , p. 2003 - 792
L I Khoruzhy , A E Vyruchaeva
Accounting assets and agricultural produce in the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards: monograph Posted: 2012
L I Khoruzhy , A S Khusainova
Possible methods of accounting of biological assets and agricultural products // Accounting in agriculture
L I Khoruzhy
Model estimating the fair value of biological assets and the results of their biotransformation // Accounting in agriculture Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,144
RANK
518,107
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies