Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pre and Post-IFRS Regulations for Goodwill and Their Effect on Financial Statements. A Comparative Study

Posted: 1 Jun 2016

Araceli Amorós Martínez

Miguel Hernández University of Elche

Jose Antonio Cavero Rubio

Miguel Hernández University of Elche

Date Written: May 31, 2016

Abstract

The most important effect of the international harmonization of goodwill regulations was the substitution of amortization by an impairment test to enable comparison of financial statements from different countries. However, regulating bodies like the FASB, the IASB or the European Parliament have now adopted certain measures which once again reintroduce amortization without eliminating the impairment test. For this reason, this study aims to contrast the effect that amortization or impairment has on the financial statements drawn up after the adoption of the IFRS, 2004 to 2011, in Spanish companies listed in the securities market. To do so, a series of ratios linked to goodwill will be analyzed, as well as, ROA, ROE and debt-to-equity and solvency ratios. Although, there are several studies on the impact of amortization or impairment on financial statements, they are insufficient and inconclusive. This study will contribute to providing evidence about this impact through an innovative focus, based on data from after its application, covering a longer period and making a direct comparison between both methods. The results will reveal that the ratios calculated with impairment are generally better, and the application of statistical techniques will determine that for the majority of the ratios the differences are significant.

Keywords: Goodwill, impairment test, systematic amortization, financial ratios

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Amorós Martínez, Araceli and Cavero Rubio, Jose Antonio, Pre and Post-IFRS Regulations for Goodwill and Their Effect on Financial Statements. A Comparative Study (May 31, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2786872
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,285
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies