Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Current Debates Regarding International Accounting Harmonization, Standardization and Compliance

National Strategies Observer No.2/Vol.2, 2015

11 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2016

Ioana Anghel

Valahia University of Targoviste, Students

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The central goal of the adoption of the IFRS was to improve the quality of accounting information and to ensure greater comparability and transparency of international financial reporting. This paper is intended to identify the importance of accounting and financial information in the present context of continuous and dynamic change towards globalization on all levels, in order to outline the underlying factors that generate differences regarding international accounting. At the same time, the paper traces the evolution of international accounting harmonization, standardization and uniformity with the aim of describing the advantages, concerns, success and flaws of the IAS/IFRS framework.

Keywords: accounting standards, harmonization, convergence, conformity, IAS/IFRS, European Union Directives

JEL Classification: A10

Suggested Citation:

Anghel, Ioana, Current Debates Regarding International Accounting Harmonization, Standardization and Compliance (2015). National Strategies Observer No.2/Vol.2, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2787711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors, Accounting and Business Research
International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Duțescu
Informația contabilă și piețele de capital , p. 18 - 57 Posted: 2000
M M Gîrbină , Ș Bunea
Sinteze, studii de caz și teste grilă privind aplicarea IAS (revizuite) -IFRS , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 2009
C Nobes , R Parker
Comparative international accounting , p. 24 - 98 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,823
RANK
256,498
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies