Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of IFRS on Net Income and Earnings Components: Value Relevance, Persistence and Predictive Value

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting - REFC, Vol. 45, No. 3, pp. 365-388

34 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2016 Last revised: 14 Nov 2016

M. Fuensanta Cutillas-Gomariz

University of Murcia

Juan P. Sánchez-Ballesta

University of Murcia

José Yagüe

University of Murcia

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether the switch to IFRS has affected the value relevance and persistence of net income. In addition, since IFRS adoption has involved changes in the location of non-recurring items in the income statement, we also examine whether these changes have influenced the value relevance, persistence, and predictive value of the main income measures. Using a sample of Spanish listed firms, we find an increase in the value relevance of net income and non-significant changes in its persistence after 2005. We also find that non-recurring items were value relevant in the pre-adoption period and that the operating income is more value relevant after IFRS adoption. This suggests that the significant increase in the value relevance of operating income could be explained by the inclusion in this income measure of former extraordinary and special items. We also observe that the former extraordinary section under SAS was persistent, whereas the income measure of net profit/loss from discontinued operations under IFRS is neither value relevant nor persistent. We do not find significant changes in the attributes of financial income, but we do observe an increase in the value relevance of other consolidated items and corporation tax after IFRS adoption.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Accounting Quality, Value Relevance, Persistence, Predictability

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Cutillas-Gomariz, M. Fuensanta and Sánchez-Ballesta, Juan P. and Yagüe, José, The Effects of IFRS on Net Income and Earnings Components: Value Relevance, Persistence and Predictive Value (June 1, 2016). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting - REFC, Vol. 45, No. 3, pp. 365-388, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2788527
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
V E Athanasakou , N C Strong , M Walker
Classificatory income smoothing: the impact of a change in regime of reporting financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 387 - 435 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Do earnings reported under IFRS tell us more about future earnings and cash flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,687
RANK
189,166
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies