Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS 9 for Banking Industry the Case for IFRS and FINREP Taxonomies, Critical Asessment (Abstimmbarkeit von Anhangangaben nach IFRS 9 und 7 mit dem Meldewesen: Perspektive der IFRS-Taxonomie)

7 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2016 Last revised: 11 Aug 2016

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Maciej Piechocki

Independent

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

Manuscript Type: Theoretical

Main topic: A tsunami of regulations since the 2013 financial crisis is steering toward’s Europe’s financial service sector. At the same time the accounting standard for financial institutions core products the financial instruments will be changing. Whenever such new accounting and reporting standards are issued by the IASB (International Accounting Standards Board) and this includes also footnotes, those disclosures become increasingly relevant. The reason for that is that the footnote disclosure represent an important source of information to provide transparency and enable the investor to understand the ex-post implementation business impact. In this paper the focus will be on those new footnote disclosures.

As disclosures according to IFRS 9 become compulsary by 2018, the existing IFRS Taxonomy for IFRS 9 al-ready developed by the IFRS Foundation, represents a suitable and objective framework to assess IFRS 9 im-pact on disclosures at an early stage. The specific goal of this paper is to perform a conceptual gap analysis considering the IFRS 9 taxonomy issued by the IASB and the Financial Reporting (FinRep) taxonomy on IFRS 9 issued by the European Banking Authority (EBA).

In general, the IFRS Taxonomy is not used very much in practice. This is not understandable as several advantages relate to the IFRS Taxonomy: principle-based accounting standard does very often not define specifically disclosure rules for each and every topic, therefore to derive reporting elements would very difficult to accomplish. A robust taxonomy development and governance process leading to the IFRS Taxonomy simplifies the task of interpretations and the actual expression of reporting elements.

The IASB started to perform a review process of the XBRL Due Process in 2013. As a result the development of the IFRS Taxonomy should become part of the general due process of the financial reporting standards. Due to these changes it is expected that the importance of the IFRS Taxonomy will be growing. The FinRep Taxonomy has become mandatory since 2014 for all banks within Europe, to fulfill the regulatory reporting requirements according to the Capital Requirements Directive (CRR) IV.

Results: Even though the disclosures for external reporting and for regulatory reporting are based on the same accounting framework the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), differences can be observed with regard to disclosures, which are partly material. These differences become transparent when analysing IFRS- and FinRep-Taxonomy reporting elements. This is caused by the principle-based IFRS, which enable scope of interpretation and the different objectives of the IASB and the banking supervision. Whereas the IASB follows the objective to develop industry non-specific international financial reporting standards, the banking supervision core focus lies on the banking industry. The EBA follows specific information re-quests with the FinRep Taxonomy in the role as banking supervisory. The IASB intends to provide decision useful information for investors. Nevertheless these two taxonomies provide the possibility for a starting point for the harmonization and the development of common practice disclosures, which could counteract against a heterogeneous financial reporting and the issue of “information overload”.

Keywords: IFRS 9, IFRS 7, Statutory Reporting, Taxonomy, FinRep

JEL Classification: G20

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk and Piechocki, Maciej, IFRS 9 for Banking Industry the Case for IFRS and FINREP Taxonomies, Critical Asessment (Abstimmbarkeit von Anhangangaben nach IFRS 9 und 7 mit dem Meldewesen: Perspektive der IFRS-Taxonomie) (June 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2793704 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2793704
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,643
RANK
370,049
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies