Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Capital Disclosure in Chinese and Indian Information Technology Companies: A Comparative Analysis

42 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2016

Qianyu Wang

University of Waikato

Umesh Prasad Sharma

University of Waikato

Howard Davey

University of Waikato

Date Written: June 25, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to examine the extent and quality of voluntary intellectual capital disclosures by information technology companies of China and India.

Research Design/Methodology: The research method adopted for this study is content analysis. The research is limited to the intellectual capital information disclosed in companies’ annual report. The sample for this research is based on 20 information technology (IT) companies listed by market captalisation listed on Shenzhen or Shanghai stock exchange market, and the largest 20 companies listed on Indian stock market.

Findings: Indian IT companies tends to perform better than Chinese IT companies in extent and quality of disclosures. The extent of disclosure of both countries is at a relatively high level. The most frequently reported disclosure category in India is external capital, while the least one is human capital. In China, external capital is the most frequently disclosed category, while the internal capital is the least one.

Limitations/Implications: The sample size of the study is relatively small. Future research can expand on the sample size to get an overview of the intellectual capital disclosure, and conduct a longitudinal study to capture the trend of reporting practices.

Originality: Previous studies of intellectual capital (IC) disclosure have covered little on the relationship between market capitalization and quality of disclosure and cross-country disclosure on IC. This research tends to extend the literature on intellectual capital disclosure.

Keywords: intellectual capital, China, India, information technology, disclosure.

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Qianyu and Sharma, Umesh Prasad and Davey, Howard, Intellectual Capital Disclosure in Chinese and Indian Information Technology Companies: A Comparative Analysis (June 25, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2800479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2800479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Mean score" is a quality measure for the disclosure of IC items. Calculation examples for Chinese companies: Intellectual property
I Abeysekera
Intellectual capital reporting between a developing and developed nation
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 329 - 345 Posted: 2007
Crossref
I Abeysekera
Intellectual capital disclosure trends: Singapore and Sri Lanka
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 723 - 737 Posted: 2008
Crossref
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
An empirical investigation of annual reporting trends of intellectual capital in Sri Lanka
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 151 - 163 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,858
RANK
362,814
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies