Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Growing Disparity in Earnings Disclosure Mechanisms: The Rise of Concurrently Released Earnings Announcements and 10-Ks

27th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting Paper

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-50

68 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2016 Last revised: 6 Jun 2018

Salman Arif

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

Nathan T. Marshall

University of Colorado at Boulder - Department of Accounting

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 6, 2018

Abstract

We document that the conventional disclosure practice of ‘stand-alone’ earnings announcements (EAs), which preempt 10-K filings, is steadily disappearing over time. Instead, firms are increasingly adopting the disclosure strategy of releasing the EA concurrently with the 10-K. We first examine the factors associated with firms’ adoption of concurrent EA/10-K disclosure and find that it is associated with greater impediments to producing timely and reliable earnings information, lower investor sophistication, and greater industry-level prevalence of concurrent EA/10-K reporting. We next examine the market implications of concurrent EA/10-Ks. We document that investors anticipate more of the information in concurrent EA/10-Ks, relative to stand-alone EAs, and that concurrent EA/10-Ks are more likely to be preempted by industry peer EAs. Further, the market reaction to concurrent EA/10 Ks is muted compared to stand-alone EAs even after controlling for the timing of the announcement. Our results suggest that the muted market reaction to concurrent EA/10-Ks is associated with the amount of information released, as the market reaction to concurrent EA/10-Ks is further dampened when the 10-K is longer. Concurrent EA/10 Ks are also associated with greater post-earnings-announcement drift compared to stand-alone EAs.

Keywords: Earnings Announcements; Disclosure; SEC Filings; Information Content; Timeliness; Concurrent Information

Suggested Citation:

Arif, Salman and Marshall, Nathan T. and Schroeder, Joseph H. and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, A Growing Disparity in Earnings Disclosure Mechanisms: The Rise of Concurrently Released Earnings Announcements and 10-Ks (June 6, 2018). 27th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting Paper, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-50, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2801701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2801701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,107
RANK
72,150
34 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies