Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceptions of Role of Human Behavior in Adopting International Financial Reporting Standards

International Journal of Humanities and Applied Social Science, Vol. 1, No. 3, June, 2016

Posted: 2 Jul 2016

Etumudon Ndidi Asien

Federal University Otuoke

Date Written: June 30, 2016

Abstract

In their droves, many countries are joining the bandwagon of adopters of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), perhaps, taking for granted the human behaviors possibly influencing their decisions. Drawing upon themes from psychology, this paper elicits students’ perceptions of the role of subliminal behavioral biases that are likely influencing IFRS adoption decision. Factor analyses methods were performed on questionnaires administered on 63 undergraduate students studying accounting and finance in a University in Nigeria. The results suggest that eight behavioral components explain more 70% of the decision to adopt IFRS in Nigeria. This finding is generalizable to other countries because human beings make (do not make) decisions in all countries. An understanding of the perceived influence of the psychological themes operationalized in this paper enhances an understanding of human biases influencing the decision to adopt IFRS.

Keywords: Behavioral Finance, International Financial Reporting Standards, Psychology

JEL Classification: M41, M10, M19

Suggested Citation:

Asien, Etumudon Ndidi, Perceptions of Role of Human Behavior in Adopting International Financial Reporting Standards (June 30, 2016). International Journal of Humanities and Applied Social Science, Vol. 1, No. 3, June, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2802862
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies