Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Online Financial Disclosure as an Accountability Mechanism for NGOs Across the Globe

Paper accepted at Revista Universo Contábil (Brazil) (2016)

17 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2016 Last revised: 27 Sep 2018

Kevin Good

Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Lucas Martins Dias Maragno

Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) - Faculdade de Administracao e Ciencias Contabeis - FACC

Jose Alonso Borba

Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC) - Accounting Department

Date Written: June 29, 2016

Abstract

The expansion of the Third Sector in terms of size, scope, and importance has brought on a greater need for accountability and legitimacy. The disclosure of reports on financial and operating performance is a powerful tool for NGOs, allowing for a dialogue with their stakeholders, as well as a resource in and of itself, given the vital part it plays in the acquisition of financial support. Parallel to this, the evolution and ever-expanding use of information technology facilitates the disclosure and diffusion of information to stakeholders around the world. The objective of the present work is to evaluate the level of financial disclosure shown by world´s top 100 NGOs as per the Global Journal´s 2013 Ranking, employing a checklist based on related literature and collecting data from the reports concerning the 2013 year that they make available online. Correspondence analysis showed that the level of financial disclosure is associated with the size of the organization, which suggests that along with a larger size, NGOs show a higher level of finance-based disclosure. Finally, the lack of information made available online by the Top 100 NGOs, along with the absence of financial-accounting standards in this realm hinder analysis of these organizations. Towards these ends, the checklist created in this study stands to assist NGOs that need increased disclosure levels but are limited by financial and human resource considerations.

Keywords: Accountability, Non-Governmental Organization, Disclosure, Stakeholders, Legitimacy

Suggested Citation:

Good, Kevin and Martins Dias Maragno, Lucas and Borba, Jose Alonso, Online Financial Disclosure as an Accountability Mechanism for NGOs Across the Globe (June 29, 2016). Paper accepted at Revista Universo Contábil (Brazil) (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2802328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2802328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
I Atack
Four criteria of development NGO legitimacy
World Development , volume 27 , issue 5 , p. 855 - 864 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M Arvidson , F Lyon
Social impact measurement and non-profit organisations: Compliance, resistance, and promotion. VOLUNTAS: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations , volume 25 , p. 869 - 886 Posted: 2014
R Burger , T Owens
Promoting transparency in the NGO sector: Examining the availability and reliability of self-reported data
World development , volume 38 , issue 9 , p. 1263 - 1277 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Derick W Brinkerhoff
Taking account of accountability: A conceptual overview and strategic options. Draft Report, US Agency for International Development Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,539
RANK
496,121
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Information Systems & Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies