Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expected-Loss-Based Accounting for Impairment of Financial Instruments: The FASB and IASB Proposals 2009-2016

63 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2016

Noor Hashim

Lancaster University Management School

Weijia Li

Lancaster University Management School

John O'Hanlon

Lancaster University Management School

Date Written: June 28, 2016

Abstract

The financial and banking crisis of the late 2000s prompted claims that the incurred-loss method for the recognition of credit-losses had caused undesirable delay in the recognition of credit-loss impairment. In the wake of the crisis, the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) worked towards the development of expected-loss-based methods of accounting for credit-loss impairment. Their work included an ultimately unsuccessful attempt to develop a converged FASB/IASB standard on credit-loss impairment. The FASB and IASB eventually developed their own separate expected-loss models to be included, respectively, in a 2016 FASB standard and in the IASB's 2014 final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The failure to achieve convergence on an issue of such high profile and materiality has generated some controversy, and it is claimed that it will impose significant costs on the preparers and users of the financial statements of banks. This paper examines the various sets of expected-loss-based proposals issued separately or jointly since 2009 by the FASB and the IASB. It describes and compares key features of the different approaches eventually developed by the two standard setters, referring to issues that arose in arriving at practically workable solutions and to issues that may have impeded FASB/IASB convergence. It also provides information indicative of the possible effect of differences between the two approaches.

Keywords: financial instruments, impairment, expected-loss, loan losses, IFRS 9

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Hashim, Noor and Li, Weijia and O'Hanlon, John F., Expected-Loss-Based Accounting for Impairment of Financial Instruments: The FASB and IASB Proposals 2009-2016 (June 28, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2803173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
P André , A Cazavan-Jeny , W Dick , C Richard , P Walton
Fair Value Accounting and the Banking Crisis in 2008: Shooting the Messenger
Accounting in Europe , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman
How did financial reporting contribute to the financial crisis?
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 423 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Beatty , S Liao
Do delays in expected loss recognition affect banks' willingness to lend
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Bischof , H Daske
Interpreting the European Union's IFRS Endorsement Criteria: The Case of IFRS 9
Accounting in Europe , volume 13 , issue 2 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,269
RANK
189,166
11 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies