Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS / IAS Adoption and Its Tax Challenges and Management – Views from Ghana

The International Journal Of Business & Management, Vol. 4, Issue 5, 2016

14 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2016

Virgil Abedana

Tamale polytechnic

John Gayomey

Tamale Polytechnic

Date Written: July 1, 2016

Abstract

This study investigates the tax challenges that face the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by Ghanaian listed firms and how it could be manage. In particular, this study documented the tax challenges and management of IFRS / IAS adoption from the perspective of preparers of financial statements in Ghana. The researchers used descriptive research design and the evidence was obtained by means of structured questionnaire and semi-structured interviews. The results of the study indicate that IFRS / IAS adoption by Ghanaian entities has faced some obstacles such as apparent complexities and voluminous in disclosure, measurement, recognition of items, increased adjustment from financial accounting to tax accounting, the absence of general guidelines from ICA – G / CIT-G and the GRA on tax treatment following IFRS / IAS adoption. Data collections came after barely six years after the preparations of these financial statements, thus it is therefore possible that findings could be affected by time-related updates. Nevertheless, surveying preparers’ views is a useful exercise as views may influence acceptance of and the incorporation of how to manage those tax challenges of IFRS / IAS adoption. Our emphasis was more on real costs and taxation difficulties of adoption than on perceived cost and tax challenges. The researchers recommend that the management of tax challenges and its management should or can be share with industry stakeholders for further discussions and debates in framing guidelines on tax treatment due to IFRS / IAS adoption. Also, there should be incorporation of IFRS / IAS concepts and procedures into accountancy educational curriculum and provision of capacity building and development for all relevant stakeholders engage in the implementation and continuous survival of IFRS / IAS in Ghana. Future researches could be carried out to investigate whether IFRS / IAS tax challenges associated with its general adoption challenges.

Suggested Citation:

Abedana, Virgil and Gayomey, John, IFRS / IAS Adoption and Its Tax Challenges and Management – Views from Ghana (July 1, 2016). The International Journal Of Business & Management, Vol. 4, Issue 5, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
P Brown
Some observations on research on the benefits to nations of adopting IFRS. The Japanese Accounting Review Posted: 2013
Crossref
U Bru¨ggemann , J M Hitz , T Sellhorn
Intended and unintended consequences of mandatory IFRS adoption: A review of extant evidence and suggestions for future research
European Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Y Cavana , B L Delahaye , U Sekaran , Australia Milton , K Chalmers , G Clinch , J Godfrey
Applied business research: qualitative and quantitative methods
the Black , p. 52 - 54 Posted: 2001
K Chalmers , G Clinch , J Godfrey
Changes in value relevance of accounting information upon IFRS adoption: Evidence from Australia
Australian Journal of Management , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 173 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Martin Emeka Okafor , Clement Ikechukwu Ndukaife Nwakoby , Patrick Kanayo Adigwe , Gideon Ezu
Financial Openness and Capital Market Development in Sub-Saharan African Countries
International Journal of Trend in Scientific Research and Development (IJTSRD) Volume 5 Issue 2, January-February 2021 · 8 Pages · Posted: 10 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 205
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Martin Emeka Okafor , Clement Nwakoby , Gideon Ezu
Capital Market Development and Financial Openness in Sub-Saharan Africa
International Journal of Latest Technology in Engineering, Management & Applied Science (IJLTEMAS) Volume X, Issue XII, December 2021|ISSN 2278-2540 · 9 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 57
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,080
RANK
208,831
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies