Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Institutional Ownership and Auditor Choice: Evidence from Worldwide Institutional Ownership

Journal of International Business Studies 50, 83-110

51 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2016 Last revised: 4 Mar 2020

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Xiangang Xin

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK)

Date Written: July 8, 2016

Abstract

We investigate the influence of foreign institutional investors on firms’ auditor choices in an international setting. Foreign institutional investors are likely to demand high-quality audits to mitigate the information asymmetry they face and facilitate their external monitoring when they invest overseas. On the other hand, foreign institutional investors not only face difficulties in monitoring overseas firms in general but also have the limited ability to influence their auditor choices in particular. Using a large sample of 111,078 firm-year observations from 40 non-U.S. countries for the period of 2001–2011, we find that firms with higher foreign institutional ownership are more likely to hire Big 4 auditors. To address the endogeneity concern, we show that our findings are robust to the use of identification strategies exploiting the exogenous variation in foreign institutional ownership following MSCI index additions, two-stage least squares regressions, and change-on-change regressions. More importantly, we further explore cross-sectional/cross-country variations in the relation between foreign institutional investors and auditor choice and find that this relation is stronger (a) when foreign institutional investors are from countries with stronger governance institutions and (b) when the investee firms are located in countries with higher information asymmetries. Overall, our findings suggest that cross-border institutional investment plays an important role in influencing firms’ auditor choices and improving the information environment of firms across different countries around the world.

Keywords: Foreign Institutional Investors, Auditor Choice, Information Environment

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Pevzner, Mikhail and Xin, Xiangang, Foreign Institutional Ownership and Auditor Choice: Evidence from Worldwide Institutional Ownership (July 8, 2016). Journal of International Business Studies 50, 83-110, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2807691 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2807691
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P D Wysocki
Portfolio preferences of foreign institutional investors
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 29 , issue 12 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R V Aguilera , K A Desender , M L P Lamy , J H Lee
The governance impact of a changing investor landscape
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 221 Posted: 2017
Crossref
J K Aier , L Chen , M Pevzner
Debtholders' demand for conservatism: Evidence from changes in directors' fiduciary duties
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 5 , p. 993 - 1027 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,078
RANK
184,656
28 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies