Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption and Financial Reporting Quality: A Review of Evidences in Different Jurisdictions

International Letters of Social and Humanistic Sciences Submitted: 2016-03-31 ISSN: 2300-2697, Vol. 69, pp 93-106

18 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2016 Last revised: 22 Aug 2016

Habeeb Mohamed Nijam

South Eastern University of Sri Lanka

Jahfer Athambawa

South Eastern University of Sri Lanka

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 16, 2016

Abstract

Conventional and commonly held wisdom with respect to the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is that they lead to improved financial reporting quality and comparability and thereby favorable economic consequences. There are however contradicting evidences disproving this conventional wisdom or rejecting its gross generalization over the entire jurisdictions harmonizing on IFRS. Driven by this fact, quests for knowledge about the dynamics and contexts that lead to differential effects of IFRS get momentum. In an attempt to explore the insight into the effects of international accounting harmonization by way of IFRS adoption, this paper reviews selected literatures on consequences of IFRS adoption. This review discusses some empirical evidences that have been reported in various countries that include Europe, USA, United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, Norway, Greece, Poland, Belgian, France, Italy, Turkey, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Kuwait, Jordan, China, Malaysia, Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Kenya and Nigeria. Our review focuses on the aspects of value relevance, disclosure quality, cost of capital, earning management and financial statement impact due to the IFRS adoption. This review reveals that economic consequences of IFRS adoption significantly differ across jurisdictions though being its impact reported to be positive in majority of cases. There are also notable number of studies that report indifferent and or negative effects of IFRS adoption. When IFRS studies report mixed evidence with respect to value relevance of book value of equity and earing, book value of equity supersedes the earning parameters. IFRS are found to supersede many other domestic financial reporting standards in terms of volume and quality of disclosures in financial statements. This review also obtains that IFRS’ impact on the reduction of cost of capital depends on financial reporting incentives, law enforcement, types of legal systems and various other country and capital market specific characteristics. Further, though there are some evidences to the contrary, the quality of earnings reported under IFRS has been established to be superior to that under other local standards.

Keywords: IFRS, Review, Accounting, Quality, Standards, Adoption, Impact, Evaluation, Convergence, Harmonization

JEL Classification: M40,M41,M42,M48

Suggested Citation:

Nijam, Habeeb Mohamed and Athambawa, Jahfer, IFRS Adoption and Financial Reporting Quality: A Review of Evidences in Different Jurisdictions (May 16, 2016). International Letters of Social and Humanistic Sciences Submitted: 2016-03-31 ISSN: 2300-2697, Vol. 69, pp 93-106, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2808364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,494
RANK
86,861
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies