Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Financial Reporting Standards: A Review of Status of Adoption and Approaches for Evaluation

nternational Letters of Social and Humanistic Sciences Submitted: 2016-02-29 ISSN: 2300-2697, Vol. 69, pp 69-7

Posted: 14 Jul 2016

Habeeb Mohamed Nijam

South Eastern University of Sri Lanka

Jahfer Athambawa

South Eastern University of Sri Lanka

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 16, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this review is to explore various approaches and perspectives that are currently being used by empirical studies reporting the impact of IFRS adoption in different jurisdictions around the globe. For this purpose to be better served, this study also presents at the outset an overview of the scope, objectives and current adoption status of IFRS. This study reviewed the literature on classifications of IFRS adoption studies with the view of deducting methodical frameworks outlining the dimensions that may warrant investigation for IFRS to be consented as a set of quality and global accounting standards. This study concludes that the success of IFRS as an international accounting standard depends on one hand in its technical quality economically yielding to both users and reporters of financial statements and on the other hand their acceptance across different jurisdictions despite their political, cultural and economic diversities.

Keywords: IFRS, Accounting, Standards, Adoption, Impact, Evaluation, Approaches, Convergence, Harmonization, Status

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Nijam, Habeeb Mohamed and Athambawa, Jahfer, International Financial Reporting Standards: A Review of Status of Adoption and Approaches for Evaluation (May 16, 2016). nternational Letters of Social and Humanistic Sciences Submitted: 2016-02-29 ISSN: 2300-2697, Vol. 69, pp 69-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2808401
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
878
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies