Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS on Accounting Quality: Evidence from Greece

Advances in Accounting, Incorporating Advances in International Accounting, Volume 29(1), pp. 108-123, 2013

Posted: 21 Jul 2016

Panagiotis Dimitropoulos

University of Peloponnese

Dimitrios Asteriou

Hellenic Open University

Dimitrios V Kousenidis

Aristotle University of Thessaloniki - Law, Economic and Political Sciences; Aristotle University of Thessaloniki

Stergios Leventis

International Hellenic University (IHU)

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of IFRS adoption on the quality of accounting information within the Greek accounting setting. Using a sample of 101 firms listed in the Athens Stock Exchange (ASE) for a period of eight years (2001–2008) we find convincing evidence that the implementation of IFRS contributed to less earnings management, more timely loss recognition and greater value relevance of accounting figures, compared to the local accounting standards. Also, our findings document that audit quality further complements the beneficial impact of IFRS since those companies that are audited by Big-5 audit firms exhibit higher levels of accounting quality. Our findings are robust in regard to different model specifications and after controlling for firm-specific effects like size, risk, profitability and growth opportunities.

Keywords: IFRS, Value Relevance, Asymmetric Timeliness, Earnings Management, Greece

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dimitropoulos, Panagiotis and Asteriou, Dimitrios and Kousenidis, Dimitrios V and Kousenidis, Dimitrios V and Leventis, Stergios, The Impact of IFRS on Accounting Quality: Evidence from Greece (2013). Advances in Accounting, Incorporating Advances in International Accounting, Volume 29(1), pp. 108-123, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2812312
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,285
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies