Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extending the Classification of European Countries by Their IFRS Practices: A Research Note

Accounting in Europe, 12(2), pp. 223-232, 2015.

Posted: 24 Jul 2016

Isabel Lourenço

Lisbon University Institute (ISCTE-IUL); University of São Paulo (USP)

Raquel Sarquis

FEA-USP

Manuel Castelo Branco

University of Porto - Faculty of Economics

Claudio Pais

ISCTE-IUL

Date Written: July 23, 2016

Abstract

This paper expands the IFRS accounting systems’ classification proposed by Nobes [(2011). IFRS practices and the persistence of accounting system classification. Abacus, 47(3), 267–283] to a broader set of European countries. The results suggest a classification distinguishing between four groups of European countries, and add to the evidence, reported by Kvaal and Nobes [(2010). International differences in IFRS policy choice. Accounting and Business Research, 40(2), 173–187] and Nobes (2011)., that pre-IFRS accounting differences influence the options adopted by firms. This study contributes to the literature suggesting that the widespread adoption of IFRS has not eliminated the differences between national accounting practices and that accounting systems classification did not lose its relevance.

Keywords: Accounting classifications; Europe; IFRS Practices.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lourenço, Isabel and Sarquis, Raquel and Branco, Manuel Castelo and Figueiredo Pais, Claudio António, Extending the Classification of European Countries by Their IFRS Practices: A Research Note (July 23, 2016). Accounting in Europe, 12(2), pp. 223-232, 2015., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2813616
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies