Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Differences in Accounting Practices under IFRS and the Influence of the USA

27 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2016

Isabel Lourenço

Lisbon University Institute (ISCTE-IUL); University of São Paulo (USP)

Raquel Sarquis

FEA-USP

Manuel Castelo Branco

University of Porto - Faculty of Economics

Nuno Magro

University Institute of Lisbon (IUL)

Date Written: July 23, 2016

Abstract

This paper expands prior IFRS accounting systems’ classifications to a broader set of 27 countries where the IFRS adoption is a widespread practice, plus the United States of America (USA). The results suggest a classification distinguishing between three groups of countries, based on the similarity of their accounting practices: 1) Australia and New Zealand, 2) USA-influenced countries, and 3) South Africa, Oman and European countries. This study contributes to the literature not only by providing evidence of differences in accounting practices to a broader set of countries, but mainly by suggesting an economic explanation to the existence of accounting choices. In particular, the economic proximity to the USA may be an important factor influencing accounting practices in some countries even after the IFRS adoption.

Keywords: Accounting Classifications; IFRS Practices, USA Influence

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lourenço, Isabel and Sarquis, Raquel and Branco, Manuel Castelo and Magro, Nuno, International Differences in Accounting Practices under IFRS and the Influence of the USA (July 23, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2813585 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2813585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP based accounting amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B S Black , A G Carvalho , E Gorga
What matters and for which firms for corporate governance in emerging markets? Evidence from Brazil (and other BRIK countries)
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 934 - 952 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Brown
International Financial Reporting Standards: what are the benefits? Accounting and Business Research , volume 41 , p. 269 - 285 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Fabio Moraes da Costa , Carol Liu , Regina Rosa , Samuel L. Tiras
The Effects of Fair Value on the Matching of Revenues and Expenses: The Case of Asset Revaluations
International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 35 Pages · Posted: 1 May 2020 · Last revised: 8 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 197
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,132
RANK
172,047
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies