Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Flexibility in Cash Flow Classification Under IFRS: Determinants and Consequences

Stevens Institute of Technology School of Business Research Paper No. 2815123

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 16-022

50 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2016 Last revised: 11 Aug 2016

Elizabeth A. Gordon

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Elaine Henry

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Bjorn Jorgensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

Cheryl L. Linthicum

University of Texas - San Antonio

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 27, 2016

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) allow managers flexibility in classifying interest paid, interest received, and dividends received within operating, investing, or financing activities within the statement of cash flows. In contrast, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires these items to be classified as operating cash flows (OCF). Studying IFRS-reporting firms in 13 European countries, we document firms’ cash-flow classification choices vary, with about 76%, 60%, and 57% of our sample classifying interest paid, interest received, and dividends received, respectively, in OCF. Reported OCF under IFRS tends to exceed what would be reported under U.S. GAAP. We find the main determinants of OCF-enhancing classification choices are capital market incentives and other firm characteristics, including greater likelihood of financial distress, higher leverage, and accessing equity markets more frequently. In analyzing the consequences of reporting flexibility, we find some evidence that the market’s assessment of the persistence of operating cash flows and accruals varies with the firm’s classification choices, and the results of certain OCF prediction models are sensitive to classification choices.

Keywords: Statement of cash flows, classification shifting, IFRS, operating cash flows

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gordon, Elizabeth A. and Henry, Elaine and Jørgensen, Bjørn N and Linthicum, Cheryl L., Flexibility in Cash Flow Classification Under IFRS: Determinants and Consequences (July 27, 2016). Stevens Institute of Technology School of Business Research Paper No. 2815123, Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 16-022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2815123 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2815123
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E Altman , E Hotchkiss
Corporate financial distress and bankruptcy. 3 rd Edition Posted: 2006
H S Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An exploratory study of the valuation properties of crosslisted firms' IAS and US-GAAP earnings and book values
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
Crossref
B A Badertscher , D W Collins , T Z Lys
Discretionary accounting choices and the predictive ability of accruals with respect to future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 330 - 352 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , William H. Beaver , John R. M. Hand , Wayne R. Landsman
Accruals, Cash Flow and Equity Values
Pages: 44 Posted: 8 Mar 1999
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
6 Citations
Elizabeth A. Gordon , Hsiao-Tang Hsu
Tangible Long-Lived Asset Impairments and Future Operating Cash Flows under US GAAP and IFRS
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 55 Pages · Posted: 12 Aug 2012 · Last revised: 26 Apr 2017 · Downloads: 1,360
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christian Kretzmann , Torben Teuteberg , Henning Zülch
Comparability of reported cash flows under IFRS - Evidence from Germany
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 906 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Ekaete Efretuei
Revisiting IFRS Consequences: Evidence from Wider Corporate Reporting
45 Pages · Posted: 23 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 149
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maria T. Caban-Garcia , HEEICK CHOI , Myungsun Kim
The Effects of Operating Cash Flow Disclosure on Earnings Comparability, Analysts’ Forecasts, and Firms’ Investment Decisions during the Pre-IFRS Era
British Accounting Review, Forthcoming · 61 Pages · Posted: 9 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 110
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,002
RANK
89,012
6 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies