Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Growth Matters: Disclosure and Risk Premium

The Accounting Review, 2022, 97 (4), 259–286

51 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2016 Last revised: 12 Oct 2022

Atif Ellahie

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Rachel M. Hayes

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Marlene Plumlee

University of Utah - School of Accounting

Date Written: July 2021

Abstract

Theoretical work generally predicts a negative association between disclosure and risk premium, where additional disclosure reduces estimation risk or information asymmetry. However, empirical studies frequently report mixed results. Recent theoretical studies suggest that the association between disclosure and risk premium is not necessarily always negative, and could be positive (or less negative). For example, Dutta and Nezlobin (2017) show that disclosure can be associated with higher risk premium when conditioned on firms’ growth rates. Similarly, Johnstone (2016) shows that higher signal quality can lead to higher risk premium. Motivated by these studies, we re-examine the association between disclosure and risk premium, conditional on growth. Using various proxies for risk premium, disclosure, and growth, we provide robust evidence that while the unconditional association between disclosure and risk premium is ambiguous, the conditional association is negative for lower growth firms but is less negative (or positive) for higher growth firms.

Keywords: expected returns; risk premium; cost of capital; growth; voluntary disclosure; mandatory disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, G12

Suggested Citation:

Ellahie, Atif and Hayes, Rachel M. and Plumlee, Marlene A., Growth Matters: Disclosure and Risk Premium (July 2021). The Accounting Review, 2022, 97 (4), 259–286, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2816984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2816984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
K Balakrishnan , J Core , R Verdi
The relation between reporting quality and financing investment: Evidence from changes in financing capacity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2014
K Balakrishnan , L Shivakumar , P Taori , P
Analysts' estimates of the cost of equity capital
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2021
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
540
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,107
RANK
118,061
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies