Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interaction of the IFRS 9 Expected Loss Approach with Supervisory Rules and Implications for Financial Stability

Accounting in Europe (Forthcoming)

55 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2016

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: June 30, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the interaction of the IFRS 9 expected credit loss (ECL) model with supervisory rules and discusses potential implications for financial stability in the European Union. Compared to the incurred loss approach of IAS 39, the IFRS 9 ECL model incorporates earlier and larger impairment allowances and is more closely aligned with regulatory expected loss. The earlier recognition of credit losses will reduce the build-up of loss-overhangs and the overstatement of regulatory capital. In addition, extended disclosure requirements are likely to contribute to more effective market discipline. Through these channels IFRS 9 might enhance financial stability. However, due to the reliance on point-in-time estimates of the main input parameters (probability of default and loss given default) IFRS 9 ECLs will increase the volatility of regulatory capital for some banks. Furthermore, the ECL model provides significant room for managerial discretion. Bank supervisors might play an important role in the implementation of IFRS 9, but too much supervisory intervention bears the risk of introducing a prudential bias into loan loss accounting that compromises the integrity of financial reporting. Overall, the potential benefits of the standard will crucially depend on its proper and consistent application across jurisdictions.

Keywords: IFRS 9, impairment, expected loss model, bank supervision, financial stability

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán, The Interaction of the IFRS 9 Expected Loss Approach with Supervisory Rules and Implications for Financial Stability (June 30, 2016). Accounting in Europe (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2817983
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
In general, the purpose of financial reporting is to provide transparent and useful information to a wide range of financial statement users. Bank supervisors aim at ensuring the safety and soundness of the banking system by limiting the frequency bank failures and the cost imposed on deposit insurance systems
This illustration mainly follows Gebhardt and Novotny-Farkas (2011) and Benston and Wall Posted: 2005
Crossref
See Camfferman (2015) for a detailed account of the historical development of the incurred loss model in IAS 39
the Implementation Guidance of IAS 39 is very clear that '[a]mounts that an entity might want to set aside for additional possible impairment in financial assets, such as reserves that cannot be supported by objective evidence about impairment, are not recognised as impairment or bad debt losses under IAS 39
Load more
8 Citations
Albian Albrahimi
Loan Loss Provisioning and Market Discipline: Evidence from the IFRS 9 Adoption
38 Pages · Posted: 6 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 13 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 994
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aytekin Ertan
Expected Losses, Unexpected Costs? Evidence from SME Credit Access under IFRS 9
73 Pages · Posted: 23 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 26 May 2021 · Downloads: 1,038
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aline Thatyana Aranda da Rocha Branco Alcantara Alves , Maria Paula Ribeiro Bordin , Alexandre Gonzales , Fernando de Almeida Santos
O impacto da adoção do IFRS 9 (CPC 48) nas perdas esperadas em crédito de liquidação duvidosa (PECLD) nas empresas brasileiras do setor de energia elétrica (El impacto de la adopción de IFRS 9 (CPC 48) en las perdidas esperadas en crédito de liquidación dudosa (PECLD) en las empresas brasileñas del sector de energía eléctrica) (The Adapting of the IFRS 9 (CPC 48) on Expected Credit Losses (ECL) in Brazilian Energy Companies)
<i><b>Revista Ambiente Contábil - Universidade Federal Do Rio Grande Do Norte <i/></b> • ISSN 2176-9036 • v.12 n.1 (2020) Jan. / Jun. DOI/10.21680/2176-9036.2020v12n1ID16470 , · 23 Pages · Posted: 21 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 81
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Arndt-Gerrit Kund , Florian Neitzert
Only Blunt Tools Left? How IFRS 9 Affects the Earnings and Capital Management of European Banks
44 Pages · Posted: 30 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 491
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,354
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,226
RANK
33,762
8 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies