Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of Mandatory Quarterly Reporting: The U.K. Experience

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-33

52 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2016 Last revised: 13 Mar 2017

Suresh Nallareddy

University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Robert Pozen

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is considering the pros and cons of moving to semi-annual reporting from quarterly reporting at least for certain segments of the market. However, documenting causal evidence on the consequences of mandatory quarterly reporting has been difficult, due to either the absence of a clear exogenous shock or older data. We exploit the start of mandatory quarterly reporting by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in 2007 and the end of the requirement in 2014 in the United Kingdom to examine corporate and capital market behavior. After imposition of mandatory quarterly reporting in 2007, we find (i) a dramatic decline in the number of companies that issue reports with quantitative information (defined as including both sales and earnings numbers for the quarter); (ii) a substantial increase in companies announcing managerial guidance for the upcoming year's earnings or sales; and (iii) an increase in analyst following for all sample companies. However, using a difference-in-differences analysis, we find that the imposition of mandatory quarterly reporting has virtually no impact on firms’ investment decisions. Companies that voluntarily moved back from quarterly to semi-annual reporting after 2014 have experienced a reduction in analyst coverage, but no detectable increases in their levels of corporate investments.

Keywords: Quarterly reporting; Analyst following; Investments; Disclosure

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nallareddy, Suresh and Pozen, Robert and Rajgopal, Shivaram, Consequences of Mandatory Quarterly Reporting: The U.K. Experience (March 1, 2017). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2817120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2817120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
J Ernstberger , B Link , M Stich , O Vogler
The real effects of mandatory quarterly reporting. The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Posted: 2016
Revised directive on transparency requirements for listed companies (transparency directive)-Frequently asked questions
European Commission , issue 12 Posted: 2013-06
L Fink
Letter to CEOs Posted: 2016
R Fu , A Kraft , H Zhang
Financial reporting frequency, information asymmetry, and the cost of equity
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 132 - 149 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
27 Citations
David Yermack
﻿Corporate Governance and Blockchains
Review of Finance, Forthcoming · 47 Pages · Posted: 8 Dec 2015 · Last revised: 7 May 2017 · Downloads: 4,913
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hardo Holpus , Ahmad Alqatan , Muhammad Arslan
Accounting and Finance Innovations
Posted: 2021
Crossref
Tobias Bornemann , Anna-Lena Moosmann , Zoltán Novotny-Farkas
The Consequences of Abandoning the Quarterly Reporting Mandate in the Prime Market Segment
European Accounting Review , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 89 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Sofia Johan , Minjie Zhang
The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity
, p. 824 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,197
RANK
29,985
27 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies