Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accrual Anomaly in the Greek Stock Market

Investment Management and Financial Innovations, Vol. 13, pp. 322-333, 2016.

Posted: 10 Aug 2016

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Dimitrios Thomakos

University of Athens, Department of Business Administration

Andreas Tsalas

University of Peloponnese

Date Written: August 8, 2016

Abstract

The authors examine the negative relation of traditional accruals and % accruals with future returns in the Greek stock market. Positive abnormal returns from hedge portfolios on both accrual measures summarize the economic significance of this negative relation. The magnitude of returns obtained from traditional accruals is higher than that obtained from % accruals, contrary to existing evidence from the U.S. capital market. The analysis suggests that the accrual anomaly appears to be present in the Greek stock market: this has macroeconomic implications because firms with low reported accruals may exhibit higher stock returns and at this time, during the ongoing Greek capital market crisis, investors are more likely to gain substantial abnormal returns in the future – if and when the Greek economy returns to positive growth.

Keywords: accrual anomaly, Greek stock market

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A. and Thomakos, Dimitrios and Tsalas, Andreas, The Accrual Anomaly in the Greek Stock Market (August 8, 2016). Investment Management and Financial Innovations, Vol. 13, pp. 322-333, 2016., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2819979
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies