Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of IFRS Adoption in Sri Lanka: An Evaluation of Financial Reporters' Perception

International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting, Volume 8, Issue 2, 2016

Posted: 16 Aug 2016

Habeeb Mohamed Nijam

South Eastern University of Sri Lanka

Date Written: August 13, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the perceived impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption and whether it relates to firms' characteristics. The study was conducted among all 62 companies listed in bank, finance and insurance sector at Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) using questionnaires addressed to financial and accounting professionals. The study employed principal component analysis and one-sample Wilcoxon signed-rank test and found that the IFRS adoption is perceived to have significantly improved financial reporting quality and corporate governance of firms. Though IFRS caused increased cost of financial reporting, it is yet perceived to be a net gain. However, respondents tend to perceive that IFRS adoption has not assured capital market benefits to the firms in bank, finance and insurance sector in Sri Lanka. It is also found that firms' size and profitability significantly and positively associate with perceived impact of IFRS on quality of financial reporting and corporate governance of firms. This study provides evidence for IFRS impact from a developing economy.

Keywords: IFRS Adoption; International Financial Reporting Standards; One-Sample Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test; SLFRS; Sri Lanka; Perceptions; Principal Component Analysis; PCA; Financial Reporting Quality; Corporate Governance; Financial Reporting Costs; Firms Size; Profitability; Emerging Economies

Suggested Citation:

Nijam, Habeeb Mohamed, Impact of IFRS Adoption in Sri Lanka: An Evaluation of Financial Reporters' Perception (August 13, 2016). International Journal of Managerial and Financial Accounting, Volume 8, Issue 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2822677
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,427
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies