Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differences in the Reliability of Fair Value Hierarchy Measurements: A Cross-Country Study

29th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2016

30 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2016

Chu Yeong Lim

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Gary Pan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Kevin Ow Yong

Singapore Institute of Technology

Date Written: August 15, 2016

Abstract

Prior research suggests that there are significant differences in how investors perceive the reliability of fair values across the fair value hierarchy. An unaddressed question in this stream of research is whether cross-country differences in institutional factors are able to mediate differences in reliability for the fair value hierarchy measurements. Based on an international sample of banks across 20 different countries, we find that the probability of crash risk is lower among countries with better financial development infrastructure, greater level of trust, tighter security regulations and higher level of disclosure requirements. These results apply to Level 1 assets but not to Level 2 and Level 3 assets. We also document that these cross-country factors improve the trading volume of our sample banks. Our study suggests that while ongoing concerns toward the more opaque fair values are not fully eliminated by institutional differences, they matter in influencing investor willingness to trade in these stocks.

Keywords: Fair value accounting, institutional factors, reliability

JEL Classification: D82, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lim, Chu Yeong and Ng, Jeffrey and Pan, Gary and Yong, Kevin Ow, Differences in the Reliability of Fair Value Hierarchy Measurements: A Cross-Country Study (August 15, 2016). 29th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2824124 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2824124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
S G Ryan
Accounting in and for the subprime crisis
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 1605 - 1638 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C J Song , W B Thomas , H Yi
Value relevance of FAS No. 157 fair value hierarchy information and the impact of corporate governance mechanisms
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1375 - 1410 Posted: 2010
Crossref
P J Zak , S Knack
Trust and growth
The Economic Journal , volume 111 , p. 295 - 321 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
609
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies