Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Accounting Regulations for Foreign Invested Firms in China: The Role of Chinese Characteristics

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 44, No. 4, 2015

55 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2016

Mahmoud Ezzamel

Cardiff Business School - Accounting and Finance Section

Jason Zezhong Xiao

University of Macau

Date Written: January 27, 2015

Abstract

Drawing on actor network theory (ANT), this paper analyses the role of Chinese characteristics in the emergence of three accounting regulations for foreign invested firms (FIFs) as part of China’s recent transformation to become part of the “world order”. The paper examines how international accounting standards (IAS) and existing Chinese accounting were translated into new regulations for FIFs, and how these translations were shaped by malleable interpretations of Chinese characteristics. Chinese characteristics were a discursive obligatory passage point (OPP) rendered malleable through cognition and the sanctions of political authority to suit the interests of actors seeking to produce new accounting regulations. Chinese characteristics were a signifier that carved out a space for local networks to attain their identity and retain some measure of independence from global networks, shaped the construction of each accounting regulation for FIFs into an attractive package, and influenced the adaptation and transformation of those elements of Western accounting that arrived into China. In turn, IAS became part of the discursive field on accounting regulation that helped mediate the shifts in the interpretation of Chinese characteristics over time.

Suggested Citation:

Ezzamel, Mahmoud and Xiao, Jason Zezhong, The Development of Accounting Regulations for Foreign Invested Firms in China: The Role of Chinese Characteristics (January 27, 2015). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 44, No. 4, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2832433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
123 References
A summary of the annual meeting and theoretical discussion meeting of the ASC
Accounting Society of China (ASC , issue 3 , p. 4 - 11 Posted: 1985
ASC' blueprint of accounting research during 1987-1990
Accounting Society of China (ASC , issue 3 , p. 1 - 4 Posted: 1987
Accounting Research , p. 1 - 4 Posted: 1981
Crossref
S E Aufrecht , L S Bun
Reform with Chinese characteristics: The context of Chinese civil service reform
Public Administration Review , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 175 - 182 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Jenny Chu , Annita Florou , Peter F. Pope
Auditor University Education: Does it Matter?
Forthcoming · 52 Pages · Posted: 3 May 2019 · Last revised: 23 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 392
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard H. Macve
Pacioli’s Lens: A Comment
26 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 103
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Narisa Tianjing Dai , Simon Tan
<span>Cruel Optimism: Emotions and the Enactment of Career Paths in Professional Service Firms</span>
47 Pages · Posted: 13 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 199
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Weipeng Yuan , Richard H. Macve
Some Theoretical Implications of New Discoveries in Chinese Accounting History Research from Original Archival Materials
AAA Annual Meeting, August 2019 · 39 Pages · Posted: 3 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 74
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,315
RANK
687,646
4 Citations
123 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies