Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality and IFRS Research in Africa: Recent Evidence, Issues and Future Direction

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol 7, No, 16, pp. 84-94, 2016

26 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2016 Last revised: 4 Sep 2016

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: August 31, 2016

Abstract

This paper review the recent empirical research on IFRS and earnings quality among African studies and show mixed conclusions regarding the impact of IFRS on earnings quality and financial reporting quality in the region. Also, some discussions on factors that led to the growth in the earnings quality African literature over the last decade as well as some challenges in the recent literature, are provided. Also, the study makes several observations regarding IFRS and earnings quality research in Africa and suggests potential directions for future research. The need to (i) understand the recent direction of earnings quality research in Africa, (ii) understand the interaction between policy and earnings quality research, if any, in the African region, and (iii) the need to maintain high-level rigour in earnings quality research while ensuring greater interaction between policy and research, makes this study important. Given the paucity of research on earnings quality in developing countries, this study contributes to the broader earnings quality literature by providing a review of the African earnings quality literature; hence, conclusions based on empirical studies in this review are not intended to be generalised to developed countries but only to developing countries. Finally, while insights in this paper may be informative to the reader, the intended objective is to stimulate debates that would improve the outputs of earnings quality research and the overall quality of accounting disclosure among firms in Africa.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Standard Setting, Earnings Management, IFRS Adoption, Accounting Quality, Disclosure Regulation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, O55

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Earnings Quality and IFRS Research in Africa: Recent Evidence, Issues and Future Direction (August 31, 2016). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol 7, No, 16, pp. 84-94, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2833081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
D Ames
IFRS adoption and accounting quality: The case of South Africa
Journal of Applied Economics and Business Research , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 154 - 165 Posted: 2013
N Apergis
The Role of IFRS in Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from a Panel of MENA Countries
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 7 , issue 10 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
U Brüggemann , J M Hitz , T Sellhorn
Intended and unintended consequences of mandatory IFRS adoption: A review of extant evidence and suggestions for future research
European Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,224
RANK
301,137
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies