Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accrual Anomaly and Corporate Financing Activities

Finance Research Letters, Vol. 20, pp. 125-129, 2017

Posted: 19 Sep 2016 Last revised: 4 Jan 2017

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: September 16, 2016

Abstract

We examine the mispricing versus rational explanation of the accrual anomaly for U.K. listed firms by focusing on the interaction between accruals and equity financing activities. Portfolio-level analyses and firm-level regressions indicate that the negative relation of accruals with future profitability and stock returns occurs only when firms with low accruals that repurchase equity and firms with high accruals that issue equity are considered. In contrary, this negative relation is dampened by the inclusion of firms with low (high) accruals that issue (repurchase) equity. Our evidence suggests that investors misprice accruals in U.K. and casts doubt on the rational explanation.

Keywords: accruals, profitability, returns, mispricing, risk

JEL Classification: G1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., Accrual Anomaly and Corporate Financing Activities (September 16, 2016). Finance Research Letters, Vol. 20, pp. 125-129, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2839764
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies