Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of IFRS on Financial Aspects of Indian Telecom Operators A Conceptual Framework

Telecom Business Review, (2013), (ISSN No. 0973 9114), Volume 6, Issue 1, Publishing India, pp.17-26

Posted: 28 Sep 2016

Prasanna Kulkarni

Symbiosis Institute of Telecom Management; The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India

Abhijit Chirputkar

Symbiosis Institute of Telecom Management, Constituent of Symbiosis International University

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are now to be compulsorily followed by all companies in India. The transition to IFRS-converged accounting standards has already started and is being implemented in a phased manner from 2011 to 2014. This is supposed to bring about global unification of standards for reporting financial information to shareholders, lenders and various other stakeholders. Implementation of IFRS-converged accounting standards is going to give rise to various changes in reporting which will have an effect primarily on financial statements and consequently on certain aspects of financial management. The implementation of IFRS is going to affect not only the disclosure of profits (income statement) and financial position (balance sheet) but also financial performance and decision making. The changes in reporting are likely to impact various financial aspects. Such financial aspects include (but are not limited to) revenue recognition, cost and profitability aspects, capital budgeting policies, working capital management,etc.There are a few unique issues and financial implications thereof, related to application of IFRS to telecom industry which need special attention. This article attempts to propose a conceptual framework for analysing the effect of IFRS (with special reference to IFRS applicable to Indian Telecom Operators) on certain financial aspects of business such as revenue recognition, property plant and equipment, intangible assets, impairment of non-financial assets, outsourcing arrangements, provisions and contingencies, inventory, borrowing costs, etc. The parameters considered for analysis include various drivers of profits, financial position, earning per share (EPS) and Enterprise Value.This framework could also be applied to telecom companies in other countries with suitable modifications / adaptation.

Keywords: IFRS, Impact, Financial Aspects, Indian Telecom Operators, Conceptual Framework

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kulkarni, Prasanna and Chirputkar, Abhijit, Impact of IFRS on Financial Aspects of Indian Telecom Operators A Conceptual Framework (2013). Telecom Business Review, (2013), (ISSN No. 0973 9114), Volume 6, Issue 1, Publishing India, pp.17-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2843510
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies