Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Factors and Conditional Conservatism in Malaysia: Does International Financial Reporting Standards Convergence Matter?

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics (Forthcoming)

Posted: 28 Sep 2016

Marziana Madah Marzuki

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) - Faculty of Accountancy

Effiezal Aswadi Abdul Wahab

School of Accounting, Economics and Finance, Curtin University

Date Written: September 26, 2016

Abstract

We examine the impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) convergence on conditional conservatism in Malaysia. In addition, we examine the influence of various institutional factors, namely, political connections, Bumiputras directors, family firms and richest-men connections on conservatism. Prior literature presents evidence of IFRS convergence on conservatism, but limited evidence exists on the role of institutional factors on conservatism. Using a sample of 1760 firm-year observations from 2004 to 2008, we provide evidence that IFRS enhances conservatism. Firms with Bumiputras directors and family firms are more conservative post-IFRS convergence, whereas the reverse behaviour results for firms with richest-men connections. We find no evidence of politically connected firms being more conservative post-IFRS convergence. Our study provides knowledge on the role of IFRS in conditional conservatism and the role of institutional factors in this relationship.

Keywords: Earnings Conservatism, Malaysia, International Financial Reporting Standards

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Marzuki, Marziana Madah and Abdul Wahab, Effiezal Aswadi, Institutional Factors and Conditional Conservatism in Malaysia: Does International Financial Reporting Standards Convergence Matter? (September 26, 2016). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2844024
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,175
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies