Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of IFRS in Indian Telecom Industry

Telecom Business Review, ISSN No. 0973 9114, Vol 5, Jan 2012, Issue 1, p 89-100

Posted: 28 Sep 2016

Prasanna Kulkarni

Symbiosis Institute of Telecom Management; The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India

Abhijit Chirputkar

Symbiosis Institute of Telecom Management, Constituent of Symbiosis International University

Date Written: September 27, 2016

Abstract

The basic objective of any business enterprises is to maximise the profits and create value for the shareholders. In meeting these objectives the management of the enterprise takes various decisions such as investing, financial and operational. The financial effect of these decisions is reflected in the financial statements prepared by the management. The financial statements consist of Profit & Loss Account, Balance Sheet and a cash flow statement.

There are a few inherent limitations of the financial statements. The financial statements are prepared on the basis of concepts, conventions, and assumptions and what is more important is - personal judgement. There are different accounting policies and practices in relation to various financial items appearing in the financial statements. Such different accounting policies, even though principally correct may lead to differing profitability and financial positions. To make them comparable, its important to have them on a common platform for which, the Accounting Standards were introduced. There are 32 accounting standards as of today which govern accounting policies to be adopted by these enterprises.

The Accounting standards are now replaced by International Financial Reporting Standards. The first time adoption and convergence are main issues related to adoption of IFRS.

The applicability of IFRS to telecom industry needs special attention. There are a few unique issues related to application of IFRS to telecom industry. The issues involved consists of adoption of IFRS for the first time, presentation of financial statements, revenue recognition, intangible assets, impairment of non-financial assets, provisions and contingencies etc. The article attempts to review the application of IFRS to telecom industry and issues related thereto.

Keywords: IFRS, Indian Telecom,

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, L96

Suggested Citation:

Kulkarni, Prasanna and Chirputkar, Abhijit, Application of IFRS in Indian Telecom Industry (September 27, 2016). Telecom Business Review, ISSN No. 0973 9114, Vol 5, Jan 2012, Issue 1, p 89-100, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2844119
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,209
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies