Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differences and the Factors of Convergence of Management Accounting Systems in Developed and Less Developed Countries

Business & Economic Review 2 (1), 13-17

5 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2016

Gohar Parvaiz

Institute of Management Sciences - Peshawar

Owais Mufti

Institute of Management Sciences - Peshawar

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

The article focuses on two areas. First part examines the major differences amongst the systems in developed and less developed countries and the rational behind it i.e. inadequate financial resources, weak business structure, poverty, political influence, weak state institutions, difference in taxation and social-economic factors. The second part examines the factors which are motivating and intimidating these two sets of groups to follow the similar management accounting practices i.e. discouraging the system of protection, innovation in IS/IT technologies, normative & mimetic aspect, international strategic alliance and international trade agreements. Organizations operating in LDC’s need to understand the pros and cons of each management accounting system considering local as well as international environment before adaptation. There are number of factors which a company needs to confront with like international collaboration, international competition, taxation, socio-ethical issues, technology, political conditions etc. Therefore the companies need to adopt the system which suits the most considering current and future prospects. However the converging factors are seen more active and dominating therefore in coming few years there are more expectation to have similar set of standards of management accounting systems.

Keywords: Management Accounting, convergence of developed and developing

Suggested Citation:

Parvaiz, Gohar and Mufti, Owais, Differences and the Factors of Convergence of Management Accounting Systems in Developed and Less Developed Countries (2010). Business & Economic Review 2 (1), 13-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2845721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M ; Al-Eryani , Dba Dissertations
Policies of US Multinational Corporations on Pricing Intracompany Transactions with Foreign Affiliates in More Developed and Less Developed Countries Posted: 1987
J Amat , S Carmona , H Roberts
Context and change in management accounting systems: a Spanish case study
Management Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 107 - 129 Posted: 1994
Crossref
A Bhimani
Management Accounting: European Perspectives Posted: 1996
J Blake
A Chinese perspective on international variations in accounting , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,088
RANK
592,728
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies