Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence Project of the Non-Publicity Accountable Entities (NPAE's) Financial Reporting

Cyprus International Journal of Management, Vol. 12(1), pp. 22-36, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Oct 2016

Odysseas E. Moschidis

University of Macedonia

Jordan Floropoulos

Aristotle University of Thessaloniki - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 2016

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to examine if the development of a simple set of relevant standards for SMEs is in the best interest of all SMEs.

Design/Methodology/Approach: In June 2004, the IASB published a Discussion Paper, Preliminary Views on Accounting Standards for Small and Medium-sized Entities setting out and inviting comments on the ~Bbard7s~ approach. The Board-received-1-20-responses. We proceeded with a simultaneous analysis of the full questionnaire using multiple correspondence analysis. For the analysis of the IASB questionnaire we considered the answers to the questions as nominal variables with three different categories for each one: Yes, No and Missing.

Findings: We found out that respondents from Europe expressed three different opinions. Generally, the maximum level of consensus has received a positive answer of 70%. Implications: A way to measure consensus having analysed the project's questionnaire.

Originality/Value: Using the method of correspondence analysis in the accounting research.

Keywords: Convergence, IASB, Accounting Standards, SMEs, NPAEs, International Financial Reporting Standards

Suggested Citation:

Moschidis, Odysseas E. and Floropoulos, Jordan, Convergence Project of the Non-Publicity Accountable Entities (NPAE's) Financial Reporting (October 2016). Cyprus International Journal of Management, Vol. 12(1), pp. 22-36, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2846296
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
641
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies