Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Disclosures and Cultural Values: A Research Note

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2016, Vol. 7 No. 18, pp. 53–61

9 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2016 Last revised: 26 Oct 2016

Michael Dobler

Dresden University of Technology - Faculty of Economics and Business Management

Kaouthar Lajili

University of Ottawa - Faculty of Administration

Daniel Zeghal

University of Ottawa - Faculty of Administration

Date Written: September 30, 2016

Abstract

Despite a significant increase in accounting research on risk disclosures that has emerged over the last two decades, there is paucity of cross-country evidence from non-financial sectors. This research note analyzes how country-specific cultural values are linked to the level of risk disclosure. We hypothesize a positive association between the level of risk disclosure and each of Hofstede’s (2001) cultural values: Power distance, uncertainty avoidance, individualism, masculinity, and long-term orientation. For a sample of manufacturing firms from four countries, our results support the hypothesis, except for masculinity, after controlling for a country’s legal system. This pattern holds for several types of risk disclosures. Our findings extend those of Elshandidy, Fraser and Hussainey (2015), contribute to cross-country disclosure research on the role of cultural values, and are relevant to current efforts to harmonize risk disclosures internationally.

Keywords: Cross-country accounting research, Cultural values, Financial reporting, Risk disclosures, Risk reporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dobler, Michael and Lajili, Kaouthar and Zeghal, Daniel, Risk Disclosures and Cultural Values: A Research Note (September 30, 2016). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2016, Vol. 7 No. 18, pp. 53–61, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2848787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
A A Abdallah , .-N , A K Hassan , P L Mcclelland
Islamic financial institutions, corporate governance, and corporate risk disclosure in Gulf Cooperation Council countries
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 31 , p. 63 - 82 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A F A Adam-Müller , M H R Erkens
Disclosure Compliance, Enforcement and Cultural Values: Evidence from Corporate Risk Disclosure Posted: 2014
A Al-Hadi , M M Hasan , A Habib
Risk committee, firm life cycle, and market risk disclosures
Corporate Governance: An International Journal , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 145 - 170 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J J Archambault , M E Archambault
A multinational test of determinants of corporate disclosure
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 194 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
422,861
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies