Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting of Non-Financial Performance Indicators ‒ A Useful Tool for a Sustainable Marketing Strategy

Calu, A., Negrei, C., Calu, D.A. and Avram, V., 2015. Reporting of Non-Financial Performance Indicators – a Useful Tool for a Sustainable Marketing Strategy. Amfiteatru Economic, 17(40), pp. 977-993

17 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2016

Adriana Calu

University of Bucharest

Costel Negrei

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Daniela Artemisa St. Calu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Avram Viorel

Independent

Date Written: October 11, 2016

Abstract

The current research has as objective to identify the reporting practices of non-financial information through the indicators proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the degree in which, for marketing purposes, there is a preference for the communication on positive aspects. In this respect we used the information published into the non-financial reports of 19 organizations that had adhered to the pilot programme of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We selected a number of 30 environment and social indicators reflecting both positive and negative aspects, and we analysed the manner in which they are presented within the reports published by the organizations, following the activities to be taken into consideration for the development of a sustainable marketing strategy: supply – production – distribution. The results of the study emphasized the fact that, regardless of the sector where the organizations run their activity, though there is no homogenous display, they report mainly the indicators presenting positive information 53%, whereas the indicators presenting negative information are reported only in proportion of 33%. The organizations holding information regarding suppliers’ sustainability emphasize this aspect in order to create a brand value whereas the rest of the organizations state that they shall proceed to such evaluations in the future. Interpreting these results through the agency of the institutional theory leads to the conclusion that certain organizations’ option to voluntarily report according to a certain referential is carried out mainly in order to obtain rightfulness. Moreover, the sustainable conduct adopted by the main market competitors generates a mimetic-type isomorphism.

Suggested Citation:

Calu, Adriana and Negrei, Costel and Calu, Daniela Artemisa St. and Viorel, Avram, Reporting of Non-Financial Performance Indicators ‒ A Useful Tool for a Sustainable Marketing Strategy (October 11, 2016). Calu, A., Negrei, C., Calu, D.A. and Avram, V., 2015. Reporting of Non-Financial Performance Indicators – a Useful Tool for a Sustainable Marketing Strategy. Amfiteatru Economic, 17(40), pp. 977-993, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2850857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Akzonobel
AkzoNobel G3.1 Content Index Posted: 2013-11-24
Akzonobel
AkzoNobel G4 indicators -Additional information Posted: 2013-11-24
D Allison-Hope , G Morgan
Navigating the Materiality Muddle Posted: 2013-06-20
F M Belz , K Peattie
Sustainability Marketing Management: A Global Perspective Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
612
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,597
RANK
100,630
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Innovation & Management Science eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies