Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Explanation of the Change in Accountants’ Attitude Towards Flexibility Using the Theory of Reasoned Action

Olimid, Lavinia and Calu, Daniela Artemisa St., An Explanation of the Change in Accountants’ Attitude Towards Flexibility Using the Theory of Reasoned Action, Revista Analele Universităţii din Oradea, seria Ştiinţe Economice, Tom XIX 2010.

6 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2016 Last revised: 22 Oct 2016

Lavinia Olimid

Academia de Studii Economice Bucuresti

Daniela Artemisa St. Calu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Date Written: August 10, 2010

Abstract

In this paper we look at accountants as “consumers of accounting regulations”. We explain the change in the accountants’ attitude towards flexibility in the accounting regulation process, using a theory derived from social psychology: the Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA).

In 1999 and 2005 we tested the attitude towards flexibility of a number of Romanian accountants who aimed at becoming private practitioners. We observed that before the existence of an accounting conceptual framework (1999), the accountants surveyed preferred flexibility with respect to accounting choices. A few years later (2005), after the implementation of IASB’s conceptual framework (but before the regulator removed it), the preference of accountants changed to flexibility. We believe that these changes could be explained using TRA.

Keywords: Romanian accounting regulation, Theory of Reasoned Action, accountants’ attitude, uniformity, flexibility

JEL Classification: M41, M31

Suggested Citation:

Olimid, Lavinia and Calu, Daniela Artemisa St., An Explanation of the Change in Accountants’ Attitude Towards Flexibility Using the Theory of Reasoned Action (August 10, 2010). Olimid, Lavinia and Calu, Daniela Artemisa St., An Explanation of the Change in Accountants’ Attitude Towards Flexibility Using the Theory of Reasoned Action, Revista Analele Universităţii din Oradea, seria Ştiinţe Economice, Tom XIX 2010. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
S J Gray
Towards a Theory of Cultural Influence on the Development of Accounting Systems Internationally
Abacus , volume 24 , issue 1 Posted: 1988
Crossref
G H Hofstede
Culture's Consequences. International Differences in WorkRelated Values. Abridged Edition Posted: 1980
N King , A Beattie , A.-M Cristescu , P Weetman
Developing accounting and audit in a transition economy: the Romanian experience
European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A D Roberts
The Recent Romanian Accounting Reforms: Another Case of Cultural Intrusion
Transitional Economies: Banking, Finance, Institutions Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
807
RANK
772,528
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies