Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementing Management Accounting Reforms in Public Sector: The Difficult Travel from Intentions to Effects

Posted: 14 Mar 2002

Inger Johanne Pettersen

Hogskolen i Bodo

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to gain more insight into the link between management accounting reforms and organisational learning and change in the hospital sector. Especially, the focus is put on the processes of defining and interpreting accounting information in this complex setting of public sector management. In 1997 the Norwegian government made a radical change in the hospitals' payment system. The hospitals' adjustments to these different systems of budget constraints are analysed by data from the county of Nordland and a case study in a university hospital clinic. The studies show that the hospitals adjusted to the frame budget system from 1991-1997 by systematically creating budget deficits, which are identified as budget drivers during this period. The case study shows that the leaders at the clinical level made a different conceptualisation of the new funding model than that of the government. Due to these diverse conceptualisations and concrete experiences at different institutional levels, more ambiguity will occur in controlling hospital activity and cost under the new per-case funding system.

Keywords: Management accounting reforms, Implementation, Hospitals, Norway

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pettersen, Inger Johanne, Implementing Management Accounting Reforms in Public Sector: The Difficult Travel from Intentions to Effects. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=285328
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,575
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies