Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Discretionary Accruals Signal for the Bright Future? Evidence from Information Demand and Supply Matrix

26 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2016

Manseek Choi

Hanyang University - School of Business

Date Written: October 3, 2016

Abstract

Two competing hypotheses explain the motivation of using discretionary accruals: managerial opportunism and managerial optimism. To the extent of managerial optimism hypothesis, the purpose of my study is to examine whether managers use discretionary accruals to disseminate their private information when the information demand of stakeholders is high while information supply is low. If market participants cannot access sufficient information about a firm, they are likely to make wrong decisions or to postpone making their decisions. If this is the case, managers will attempt to spread their private and optimistic forecasts through discretionary accruals in order to facilitate proper decision making of market participants.

Consistent with my predictions, I find:

(1) managers tend to use more discretionary accruals when the information demand is high while the information supply is low,

(2) and the discretionary accruals contain favorable signals about the future performance.

Keywords: information dissemination, search engine, accounting, discretionary accruals, managerial optimism, search index

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G10, D82

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Manseek, Are Discretionary Accruals Signal for the Bright Future? Evidence from Information Demand and Supply Matrix (October 3, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2856240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2856240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,197
RANK
730,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies