Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Reporting: Analysis of the Spanish Market Response

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 45(2), p. 231–265, 2016

45 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2016

Constancio Zamora-Ramírez

University of Seville

Jose María González-González

Universidad de Sevilla

Ana María Sabater Marcos

Miguel Hernandez University

Date Written: October 24, 2016

Abstract

As a result of the growing importance of climate change, several reporting standards have been developed related to information disclosure by companies the risks, strategies and opportunities that climate change entails, and their carbon inventories. Among these, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) stands out since a significant number of internationally traded companies participate in it. The CDP's purpose is to provide investors with useful information regarding companies’ greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies. For a sample of companies listed on the Madrid Stock Exchange and which participate in the CDP, this paper analyses whether the disclosure of information on these companies’ greenhouse gas emissions and climate change has information content for market and if the publication of this information has value relevance. The results of this study suggest that the market interprets companies’ participation in the CDP positively, and furthermore it constitutes a variable that contributes to company valuation.

Keywords: Carbon Disclosure Project; Carbon Emissions Reporting; Environmental Information Disclosure; Market Value

JEL Classification: Q54; Q56

Suggested Citation:

Zamora-Ramírez, Constancio and González-González, Jose María and Sabater Marcos, Ana María, Carbon Reporting: Analysis of the Spanish Market Response (October 24, 2016). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 45(2), p. 231–265, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2858543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance and economic performance: A simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Ambec , P Lanoie
Does it pay to be green? A systematic overview , volume 22 , p. 45 - 62 Posted: 2008
S Arora , S Gangopadhyay
Toward a theoretical model of voluntary overcompliance
Journal of economic behavior y organization , volume 283 , p. 289 - 309 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R Y Ball , Brown P
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,561
RANK
449,075
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies