Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mismatches in Tax Outcomes in the Light of BEPS Actions 2 and 5

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-S-48

58 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2016

Lukas Mechtler

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Cindy Wong Siu Ching

Government of the Republic of Singapore - Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore (IRAS)

Date Written: October 2016

Abstract

At present, the fight against tax evasion, currently often referred to as base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS), has become an important issue not only at the level of the OECD as well as the EU but also for governments around the globe. In this context, hybrid arrangements and existing preferential tax regimes have been identified, inter alia, as key factors for BEPS outcomes. Against this background, the purpose of this article is to critically assess the impact of the measures presented under BEPS Actions 2 and 5 on the existing mismatches thereby focusing on the question whether these proposals are likely to achieve the intended international coherence in corporate income taxation. Having examined the measures in detail, the authors are of the view that the linking rules presented by the OECD as a result of its work on BEPS Action 2 have significant potential to address the issue of hybrid mismatch arrangements, and the modified “nexus approach” developed in the course of the work on BEPS Action 5 will have some impact on the unintended mismatches connected with preferential tax regimes. However, these recommendations cope with different legal and economic environments around the globe. Bearing in mind the different tax policy considerations of sovereign tax legislators, the intended establishment of international coherence in corporate income taxation is unlikely to be achieved.

Suggested Citation:

Mechtler, Lukas and Wong Siu Ching, Cindy, Mismatches in Tax Outcomes in the Light of BEPS Actions 2 and 5 (October 2016). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-S-48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2858498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2858498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Oecd See
Harmful Tax Competition: An Emerging Global Issue Posted: 1998
Oecd See
Harmful Tax Competition: An Emerging Global Issue Posted: 1998
According to the OECD, countries exempting all foreign-source income from tax, i.e., the regime is a territorial system, may be particularly attractive since the exemption reduces the effective income tax rate and encourages the location of activities for tax rather than business purposes (see OECD Posted: 1998
As the OECD points out, a flexibility with regard to the determination of the tax rate or the tax base allows the taxpayer and tax authority of the country sponsoring the regime to either negotiate a "soak-up" tax when the home country allows a foreign tax credit or allows the taxpayer to avoid being subject to the home country's CFC regime when application of the CFC regime depends upon the host country tax rate (see OECD , volume 74 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,543
RANK
321,490
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies