Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Saying More with Less? Disclosure Conciseness, Completeness and Balance in Integrated Reports

Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting and Public Policy

47 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2016 Last revised: 5 Feb 2017

Gaia Melloni

HEC Lausanne - Department of Accounting and Control

Ariela Caglio

SDA Bocconi; Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Paolo Perego

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano

Date Written: January 15, 2017

Abstract

The Integrated Reporting (IR) Framework of 2013 represents the latest international attempt to connect a firm’s financial and sustainability (i.e., environmental, social and governance) performance in one company report. An IR should communicate “concisely” about how a firm’s strategy, governance, performance and prospects, in the context of its external environment, lead to the creation of sustainable value. At the same time, an IR needs to be “complete and balanced”, i.e., broadly including all material matters, both positive and negative, in a balanced way. Drawing on impression management studies, we examine a selection of performance determinants to gain insights into the factors associated with conciseness, completeness and balance in IR. The results from a sample of IR early adopters show that in the presence of a firm’s weak financial performance, the IR tends to be significantly longer and less readable (i.e., less concise), and more optimistic (i.e., balanced). We additionally find that firms with worse social performance provide reports that are foggier (i.e., less concise) and with less information on their sustainability performance (i.e., are less complete). Our evidence implies that IR early adopters employ quantity and syntactical reading ease manipulation as well as thematic content and verbal tone manipulation as impression management strategies. The results also suggest that such strategies depend not only on the level of firms’ performance but also on the type of performance (financial versus nonfinancial/sustainability). This paper adds to the limited literature on IR in sustainability accounting as well as to the research in mainstream financial accounting that examines disclosure quality using textual analysis.

Keywords: Integrated Reporting, Sustainability, Conciseness, Completeness, Disclosure, Textual Analysis, Impression Management

Suggested Citation:

Melloni, Gaia and Caglio, Ariela and Caglio, Ariela and Perego, Paolo, Saying More with Less? Disclosure Conciseness, Completeness and Balance in Integrated Reports (January 15, 2017). Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2861056 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2861056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
E Abrahamson , C Park
Concealment of negative organizational outcomes: an agency theory perspective
Academy of Management Journal , volume 37 , p. 1302 - 1334 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , I I Hughes , K E
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Alexa , M Zuell , C
Text analysis software: commonalities, differences and limitations: the results of a review
Quality and Quantity , volume 34 , p. 299 - 321 Posted: 2000
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
31 Citations
Suhee Kim , Karen Maas , Paolo Perego
The Effect of Publication, Format and Content of Integrated Reports on Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts
Forthcoming, " the Handbook of Finance and Sustainability", Boubaker, S., Cummings, D., & Nguyen, D. (Eds), Edward Elgar, 2017 · 28 Pages · Posted: 25 Jan 2017 · Downloads: 367
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Katrin Hummel , Manuel Szekely
Disclosure on the Sustainable Development Goals – Evidence from Europe
60 Pages · Posted: 9 Jul 2019 · Last revised: 16 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 443
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brigitte de Graaff , H. B. A. Steens
The Adoption of the Integrated Reporting Framework: A Perspective of Supervisory Board Members on the Drivers and Benefits
50 Pages · Posted: 1 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 261
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ekaete Efretuei
Revisiting IFRS Consequences: Evidence from Wider Corporate Reporting
45 Pages · Posted: 23 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 149
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
698
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,452
RANK
84,935
31 Citations
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies