Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Quality and Loan Pricing: The Effect of Cross-Country Differences in Legal Enforcement

The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 52, No. (2), pp. 178-200, 2017

46 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2016 Last revised: 22 Aug 2019

Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou

University of Piraeus, Department of Banking and Financial Management

Date Written: November 8, 2016

Abstract

This study examines whether the strength of legal enforcement at the country level plays a role in the value-relevance of accounting quality for loan pricing determination, using an international sample of firms reporting under IFRS. The underlying hypothesis is that stronger vs. weaker enforcement should affect the informativeness of financial statements, due to their increased credibility, and thus result in a stronger influence of accounting quality on loan pricing, in case this information is considered more reliable by potential lenders. Evidence indicates that accounting quality is consequential for the determination of loan spread only in combination with the level of legal enforcement, and this only holds for the countries with stronger legal enforcement. This evidence indicates that financial statement quality information is value-relevant and has a significant impact on the determination of loan pricing only if this information is considered to be credible enough by loan providers in a country, and this is the case when legal enforcement is stronger.

Keywords: Accounting Quality, IFRS, Legal Enforcement, Bank Loan Terms and Conditions

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G20, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Anagnostopoulou, Seraina C., Accounting Quality and Loan Pricing: The Effect of Cross-Country Differences in Legal Enforcement (November 8, 2016). The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 52, No. (2), pp. 178-200, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2866679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Neil L. Fargher , Lijuan Zhang
Investor Protection, Aggregate Changes in Profit Margins and Forecasts of Growth in GDP: International Evidence
50 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 17 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 1,043
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
RANK
429,779
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies