Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Path to an European Single Electronic Format – ESMA Consultation for the IFRS Taxonomy of Structured Electronic Reporting

3 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2016 Last revised: 5 Jan 2017

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Maciej Piechocki

Independent

Date Written: November 8, 2016

Abstract

Manuscript Type: Theoretical.

Main Focus: At European level signs become more obvious that structured electronic reporting using XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language) will be part of a future European single electronic standards for financial reporting (ESEF). This ESEF is planned to be build on the IFRS Taxonomy. The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has begun to implement rules that were included in the new EU Transparency Directive, 2013. Background of the consultation of ESMA, the amended provisions of the Transparency Directive, according to which with effect from 1 January 2020, all annual financial reports to be created in a common electronic reporting format (European Single Electronic Format (ESEF)). To this end, ESMA should submit to the European Commission not later than 31 December 2016 draft regulatory technical standards to define the electronic loading reporting format, taking into account existing and future technology options. The regulations aimed at facilitating submissions for issuers, and the filed Information for investors and regulators to improve access to and thus also to enable better analysis and peer comparisons. This article analyzes the 110 commentaries to ESMA release paper.

Results: The evaluation of the commentaries has shown that the majority of commentators the ESMA proposals support the implementation of the ESEF. A small number reject the proposals completely or is against certain aspects to ESEF. Critics of the proposed ESEF can be summarized in three categories. The first group rejects completely all proposals. Striking on this commentaries is that the text of the comments is semantically completely identical. All of these comments came from one geographical area. From this it can be concluded that the content of the comments has been agreed in advance by the companies, which can be traced back to a pooling of common interests. Although the consultation process represent a transparent proven process to public participation, so this result shows that this kind of consultation process not protected from a political-driven participation of interests. The second group consist essentially of stakeholders: regulators, IT companies, standard-setters and auditors who in general support the proposals. However, a majority of the second Grupen rejects company-specific elements which are also called common practice elements. A third group rejects the majority of proposals, but no identical semantic comments are detectable. Usually, the public consultation process has the task to disclose divergent opinions and interests and to initiate a competition. This that more than half of the commentary contains the exact same comment text, this goal is not reached. This raises the question whether ESMA should assess these commentaries in their final assessment as one comment.

Keywords: Taxonomy, ESEF, structured electronic reporting

JEL Classification: A1

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk and Piechocki, Maciej, On the Path to an European Single Electronic Format – ESMA Consultation for the IFRS Taxonomy of Structured Electronic Reporting (November 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2866747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2866747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Alles Michael , Piechocki Maciej
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 13 , p. 91 - 108 Posted: 2012
Beerbaum Dirk
Towards an XBRL-enabled corporate governance reporting taxonomy. An empirical study of NYSE-listed Financial Institutions Posted: 2015
Beerbaum Dirk , Piechocki Maciej
Abstimmbarkeit von Anhangangaben nach IFRS 9 und 7 mit dem Meldewesen: Perspektive der IFRS Taxonomie, Zeitschrift für das gesamte Kreditwesen Posted: 2016
The categories of authors was based on own analysis and not the categories made public by ESMA with the aim to avoid inconsistencies
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,786
RANK
131,610
4 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies