Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Earnings Management and Information Asymmetry in the Equity Market

European Accounting Review, (Forthcoming)

43 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2016

David Abad

Universidad de Alicante

M. Fuensanta Cutillas-Gomariz

University of Murcia

Juan P. Sánchez-Ballesta

University of Murcia

José Yagüe

University of Murcia

Date Written: October 31, 2016

Abstract

The literature suggests that real earnings management (REM) activities can increase adverse selection-risk in capital markets. Due to their opacity and the difficulties in understanding their implications, REM strategies may increase the level of information asymmetry among investors. This paper examines the association between earnings management through real activities manipulation and information asymmetry in the equity market. To estimate the level of adverse selection risk we use a comprehensive index of information asymmetry measures proposed by the market microstructure literature. For a sample of Spanish listed firms, we find that firms’ strategies of increasing earnings through REM are associated with higher information asymmetry in those firms that meet last year’s earnings. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that earnings management through real activities manipulation garbles the market, enhances private information production, and exacerbates information asymmetry in the stock market.

Keywords: Information Asymmetry, Real Earnings Management, Real Activities Manipulation, Discretionary Accruals.

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Abad, David and Cutillas-Gomariz, M. Fuensanta and Sánchez-Ballesta, Juan P. and Yagüe, José, Real Earnings Management and Information Asymmetry in the Equity Market (October 31, 2016). European Accounting Review, (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2868626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
D Abad , J Yagüe
From PIN to VPIN: An introduction to order flow toxicity
The Spanish Review of Financial Economics , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 74 - 83 Posted: 2012
Crossref
O Akay , H B Cyree , M D Griffiths , D B Winters
What does PIN identify? Evidence from the T-bill Market
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 46 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ascioglu , S P Hedge , G V Krishnan , J B Mcdermott
Earnings management and market liquidity
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 274 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
12 Citations
Scott Dyreng , Stephen A. Hillegeist , Fernando Penalva
Earnings Management to Avoid Debt Covenant Violations and Future Performance
Accounting Research Network, 2020 · 63 Pages · Posted: 26 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 523
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
James Chindengwike , Alex Reuben Kira , Andrew Kalistus Mwambe
The Influence of CAMEL Ratios on Credit Rating Evaluation in Tanzanian Commercial Banks: An Empirical Analysis
10 Pages · Posted: 14 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 336
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mariano Gonzalez Sanchez , Eva M. Ibáñez Jiménez , Ana Segovia
Comparison of the Effects of Earnings Management on the Risk Premia between Companies in Developed and Emerging European Countries
GFJ-D-22-00221 · 17 Pages · Posted: 9 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 52
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Su-Ping Liu , Juan Manuel García Lara
Do Price-earnings Multiples for Firms with Patterns of Increasing Earnings Vary with the Quality of the Earnings Pattern?
Liu, S.-P. &amp; J. M. Garc&iacute;a Lara &ldquo;Do Price-earnings Multiples for Firms with Patterns of Increasing Earnings Vary with the Quality of the Earnings Pattern&#x3f;&rdquo; &#x28;July 29, 2022&#x29;. Forthcoming in REFC &ndash; Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting. , Available at SSRN · 62 Pages · Posted: 21 Sep 2022 · Last revised: 25 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 85
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
527
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,378
RANK
121,705
12 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies