Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 Disclosure Requirements – An Analysis of the IASB Taxonomy

9 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2016 Last revised: 30 Apr 2021

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Maciej Piechocki

Independent

Date Written: November 16, 2016

Abstract

Main topic: This study concentrates on those disclosure requirements, which are defined by the new IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 related IASB Taxonomy. IASB has introduced a new standard (IFRS 9) on impairment, which requires a three-step approach, which in general replaces the current incurred impairment model with a new expected loss model. This new standard requires additional complex disclosures. The study provides early insights into implementation of IFRS 9 disclosure requirements on impairment, as IFRS 9 will become applicable 2018.

There is a large debate ongoing about the interpretation of the implementation of the IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 disclosure requirements. However, the IFRS Taxonomy is not very much part of this debate, although several advantages relate to the IASB taxonomy: principle-based accounting standard does very often not define specifically disclosure rules for each and every topic, therefore to derive reporting elements would be very difficult to accomplish. A robust taxonomy development and governance process leading to the IFRS taxonomy simplifies the task of interpretations and the actual expression of reporting elements.

Results: The IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 corresponding IFRS Taxonomy is not easy to read, as it involves particularly a large multidimensional table for the impairment rollforward, which without the use of an XBRL taxonomy software is very difficult to understand. The provided illustrative IASB Taxonomy as a PDF can not sufficiently replace the transparency of an XBRL taxonomy software as it can not display multidimensional tables. This also due to the fact that the roll-forward is a matrix of columns and rows, which go over more than ten pages. Due to these very detailed and sophisticated requirements, however annual reports as they still have to printed out have “natural” limits with regard to size and maximum number of columns for multinational tables, the question will arise how larger banks cn cope up with these requirements.

Keywords: IFRS 9, IFRS 7, Taxonomy, Principles-Based, Rule-Based, IFRS, Standardsetter, Electronic Structured Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk and Piechocki, Maciej, IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 Disclosure Requirements – An Analysis of the IASB Taxonomy (November 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2870875 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2870875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M Alles , M Piechocki
Will XBRL improve corporate governance?: A framework for enhancing governance decision making using interactive data
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 13 Posted: 2012
D Beerbaum
Significant Increase in Credit Risk According to IFRS 9: Implications for Financial Institutions
International Journal of Economics & Management Sciences Posted: 2015
Dirk Beerbaum Dr.
Towards an XBRL-Enabled Corporate Governance Reporting Taxonomy An Empirical Study of NYSE-Listed Financial Institutions
Pages: 376 Posted: 29 Oct 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dirk Beerbaum Dr. , Maciej Piechocki
IFRS 9 for Financial Institutions – The Case for IFRS and FINREP Taxonomies – A Conceptual Gap Analysis
Pages: 9 Posted: 25 Oct 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
499
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,423
RANK
130,025
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies