Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and International Tax Avoidance

LEIDEN UNIVERSITY – LEIDEN LAW SCHOOL - WORKING PAPER APRIL 2015

15 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2016

Tanja Bender

Leiden University - Department of Tax Law and Economics

Dirk Broekhuijsen

Leiden University - Leiden Law School

Date Written: April 1, 2015

Abstract

This paper aims to illustrate Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) dilemmas that multinationals face when taking international tax planning decisions. The paper, written as a chapter in a CSR-handbook for business lawyers, first provides an overview of the context in which cross-border tax issues and dilemmas arise, and identifies the relevant stakeholders and actors. The authors do not take a stance in the discussion on whether or not CSR should play a role when a multinational determines its international tax planning policy, but taking as a starting point a hypothetical multinational that wants to take CSR considerations into account, they illustrate the tax planning dilemma’s that may arise. They provide a list of factors that may be taken into account by a multinational in determining whether an international tax planning scheme is acceptable from a CSR point of view. To illustrate the relevance of their observations, the authors finish the discussion by considering three of the debate’s high-profile cases.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, international tax planning, tax avoidance, business ethics, tax morality, CSR

Suggested Citation:

Bender, Tanja and Broekhuijsen, Dirk, The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility and International Tax Avoidance (April 1, 2015). LEIDEN UNIVERSITY – LEIDEN LAW SCHOOL - WORKING PAPER APRIL 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2873611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2873611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,334
RANK
25,465
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies