Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Positive Externalities of IFRS R&D Capitalization: Enhanced Voluntary Disclosure

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2016

Ester Chen

Peres Academic Center

Ilanit Gavious

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev

Baruch Lev

New York University - Stern School of Business

Date Written: November 23, 2016

Abstract

Studies comparing IFRS with U.S. GAAP generally focus on differences in the attributes and consequences of the recognized financial items. We, in contrast, focus on voluntary disclosure resulting from arguably the most significant difference between IFRS and GAAP: the capitalization of development costs, the “D” of R&D, required by IFRS but prohibited by GAAP. We document on a sample of Israeli high-technology and science-based firms, some using IFRS and others U.S. GAAP, a significant externality of IFRS development cost capitalization in the form of extensive voluntary disclosure of forward−looking information on product pipeline development and its expected consequences. A disclosure which, we document, is value-relevant to investors beyond the mandated financial information, including the capitalized R&D asset. We also show that the capitalized development costs (an asset) is highly significant in relation to stock prices, and enhances the relevance of the voluntary disclosures. Our results are robust to controlling for self-selection, propensity to disclose voluntarily, and other confounding factors. In the on-going debate about the proper accounting for R&D (the FASB has recently placed an intangibles project on its agenda), such a value-relevant disclosure externality should be of interest to both standard-setters and researchers. 

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ester and Gavious, Ilanit and Lev, Baruch Itamar, The Positive Externalities of IFRS R&D Capitalization: Enhanced Voluntary Disclosure (November 23, 2016). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2874953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
352
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,119
RANK
194,576
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies