Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Discretion, Net Operating Assets and the Cross-Section of Stock Returns: Evidence from European Countries

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Vol.47, pp. 188-210, 2017

Posted: 1 Dec 2016 Last revised: 20 Mar 2017

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Dimitrios Thomakos

University of Athens, Department of Business Administration

Date Written: November 29, 2016

Abstract

We show that firms with higher NOA (net operating assets) subsequently experience lower stock returns in at least nine out of sixteen European countries, consistent with the U.S. evidence. This negative relation between NOA and future returns is strongly linked with cross country variation in factors capturing managerial discretion. However, once we adjust for risk, the effect of NOA on stock returns is substantially attenuated and becomes significant only in three European countries. Overall, our findings suggest that optimal investment by executives in response to discount rate changes could be an underlying source of return predictability attributable to NOA in Europe.

Keywords: Net Operating Assets, Stock Returns, Managerial Discretion, European Equity Markets

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A. and Thomakos, Dimitrios, Managerial Discretion, Net Operating Assets and the Cross-Section of Stock Returns: Evidence from European Countries (November 29, 2016). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Vol.47, pp. 188-210, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2877355
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
996
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies