Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Corporate Donations

Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Forthcoming

25 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2016 Last revised: 21 Mar 2019

Thomas St George

Victoria University of Wellington

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

A.K.M. Waresul Karim

Saint Mary's College of California - Graduate Business Programs

Date Written: December 4, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines whether corporate donations have an impact on a firm’s market value. We analyse 52,199 firm year observations on companies from 42 countries between 1998 and 2014. The regression model used to investigate the value relevance of corporate donations is the Collins, Pincus, & Xie (1999) adaptation of the Ohlson (1995) model. Our analysis finds evidence that supports our hypothesis that corporate donations are value relevant, while controlling for firm specific variables. The evidence is robust to a range of robustness tests that include recognition of the effects of the GFC and differences in country size, stage of economic development, and the economic, institutional, and legal aspects of each country.

Keywords: Value relevance, corporate donations, philanthropy

JEL Classification: M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

St George, Thomas and Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and van Zijl, Tony and Karim, A.K.M. Waresul, Value Relevance of Corporate Donations (December 4, 2016). Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2880094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M Adams , P Hardwick
An Analysis of Corporate Donations: United Kingdom Evidence
Journa of Managemnt Studies , p. 641 - 654 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A B Amran , L L Ling , Y Sofri
A Study of Corporate Philanthropic Traits Among Major Malaysian Corporations
Social Responsibility Journal , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 21 - 30 Posted: 2007
B Bao , L Chow
The Usefulness of Earnings and Book Value for Equity Valuation in Emerging Capital Markets: Ecidence from Listed Compaines in the People's Republic of China
Journal of Inernational Financial Management & Accounting , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 85 - 104 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M Barth , W Beaver , W Landsman
The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,248
RANK
381,120
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies