Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Evidence on the Value Relevance of IFRS-Based Accounting Information in Germany and the UK

Elbakry, A., Nwachukwu, J. C., Abdou, H. A. and Elshandidy, T. (2017) 'Comparative Evidence on the Value Relevance of IFRS-based Accounting Information in Germany and the UK’, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation. In press. DOI: 10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2016.12.002

43 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2016

Ashraf Elsayed Elbakry

Swansea University - School of Management

Jacinta Nwachukwu

Coventry University

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Tamer Elshandidy

Ajman University

Date Written: December 16, 2016

Abstract

This paper uses panel cointegration with a corresponding vector error correction model (VECM) to investigate the changes in the value relevance of accounting information before and after the mandatory adoption of IFRS in Germany and the UK under three different valuation models. First, a basic Ohlson model, where our results indicate that despite the value relevance of the book values of equity has declined, it has been replaced by the increasing prominence of earnings in both Germany and the UK after the switch to the IFRS. Second, a modified model, which shows that the incremental value relevance of both earnings and book values are considerably higher in the long term for firms in the UK than in Germany. Third, a simultaneous addition of accounting and macroeconomic variables in an extended model, which indicates a significant rise in the relative predictive power of the book value of equity in the UK compared with the more noticeable impact on the value relevance of earnings in Germany. Collectively, the results of these models indicate that: (i) the explanatory power of linear equity valuation models is higher in UK than in the Germany, (ii) a long-run Granger-causal relationship exists between accounting variables and share prices in common law countries like the UK. Nevertheless, the implications of our findings lie in the knowledge that the potential costs of switching to the IFRS is completely nullified within three years by the benefits arising from a reduction in information asymmetry and earning mismanagement among firms which are listed on the stock exchanges of both common law and code law-based EU countries.

Keywords: Modified Ohlson model, Value relevance, IFRS, Germany-GAAP, UK-GAAP, Cointegration, vector error correction model

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G15, G38, M40

Suggested Citation:

Elbakry, Ashraf Elsayed and Nwachukwu, Jacinta and Abdou, Hussein A. and Elshandidy, Tamer, Comparative Evidence on the Value Relevance of IFRS-Based Accounting Information in Germany and the UK (December 16, 2016). Elbakry, A., Nwachukwu, J. C., Abdou, H. A. and Elshandidy, T. (2017) 'Comparative Evidence on the Value Relevance of IFRS-based Accounting Information in Germany and the UK’, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation. In press. DOI: 10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2016.12.002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2886351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,515
RANK
487,221
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies