Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between National Culture Dimensions and Judgement and Decision Making in the Context of Fair Value Measurements under IFRS

ESCP Business School Research Paper

33 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2016 Last revised: 30 Aug 2018

Tyge Kummer

Griffith University

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: August 27, 2018

Abstract

This experimental study analyzes the association between national culture dimensions and accounting JDM. Based on data from 265 accounting students from four distinct culture clusters (Anglo, Confucian, Germanic, and Latin Europe), we find that JDM differs across culture clusters, but that selected three national culture dimensions can explain the observed differences in JDM only partially. Our results suggest that caution should be exercised when attributing observable differences in accounting JDM to differences in aggregated average scores for that cluster or country as proposed in prior research. The findings also contradict the common assumption made in prior research that individuals from a specific culture share a homogeneous pattern of culture dimensions consistent with the aggregated average scores of their culture. Our findings are of interest to preparers, users, and auditors of IFRS financial statements and accounting standard-setters by increasing awareness of the interaction between cultural differences and IFRS application.

Keywords: judgement and decision making, national culture, fair value measurement, risk perceptionJudgement and decision making; national culture dimensions; fair value measurement

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kummer, Tyge and Schmidt, Martin, The Association between National Culture Dimensions and Judgement and Decision Making in the Context of Fair Value Measurements under IFRS (August 27, 2018). ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2887172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2887172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,335
RANK
454,090
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies