Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption - Evidence from a Regulator

8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017

24 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2016

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Md. Borhan Uddin Bhuiyan

Massey University

Date Written: December 21, 2016

Abstract

We provide descriptive evidence on the enforcement of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption in New Zealand. Although there remains a voluminous literature on the consequences of IFRS adoption, very little is known about the securities regulators’ enforcement actions in case of non-compliance with IFRS. In this paper we document the matters raised by the Securities Commission of New Zealand in their Financial Reporting Surveillance Program for the period 2007 and 2010. The results show that main enquiries related to financial statement presentation, financial instruments disclosures, and related party disclosures. Regulators adopt a different perspective to auditors on the importance of various IFRS. This suggests that private enforcement (auditing) and public enforcement (regulation) are complementary activities. We also discuss the implications for current IASB issues, such as materiality and professional judgment in principles-based standards.

Keywords: Security Regulation, Enforcement, IFRS Adoption, Professional Judgment, Materiality

JEL Classification: G15, K22, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bradbury, Michael E. and Habib, Ahsan and Bhuiyan, Md. Borhan Uddin, IFRS Adoption - Evidence from a Regulator (December 21, 2016). 8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2888705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2888705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Do earnings reported under IFRS tell us more about future earnings and cash flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M E Barth , D Israeli
Disentangling mandatory IFRS reporting and changes in enforcement
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 178 - 188 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,883
RANK
627,303
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies