Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Banks Account for Short-Term Effects of IFRS 9?

19 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2016

Christophe Lejard

Université Perpignan Via Domitia - Montpellier Research in Management (MRM)

Date Written: December 26, 2016

Abstract

This study addresses how EU banks accommodate their accounting policy to face the challenge addressed by the forthcoming implementation of IFRS 9. Precisely, this study identified two challenges that banks would have to face in a short-term: 1) an increase of the amount of their assets designed at fair value through profit and loss, due to failures in Solely Payment of Principal and Interest test, and 2) a decrease on earnings generated by the implementation of the expected losses-based provisioning. Results from a difference-in-differences test show a significant downward trend regarding the amount of assets designed at fair value through profit and loss starting the IFRS 9 publication, and an upward trend for investments held to maturity. A downward and significant trend for cumulated loan loss provisions is also found. In addition, results from multivariate analysis do not exhibit unfavorable impact of those accounting policy changes on the bank share volatility.

Keywords: IFRS 9, banks, accounting management

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Lejard, Christophe, How Do Banks Account for Short-Term Effects of IFRS 9? (December 26, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2890225 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2890225
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,416
RANK
284,192
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Macroeconomics & Monetary Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies