Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Financial Behaviour of Digital Marketers

16 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2017

Mohammed Tawsif Salam

Anglia Ruskin University, Anglia Ruskin University, Students

Date Written: November 15, 2016

Abstract

This paper aims at looking through the trend of social media marketing in order to have an insight of its financial performances as an industry. The work is primarily based on investigation of financial statements, which takes the approach of in-depth financial analysis of the 2010-11 global market leader Aegis Group Plc, and then benchmarking with its competitor WPP Plc. Comparative examination of financial ratios are carried out to understand the financial behaviours of the two world leading digital marketers. Beside general evaluations, the paper also discusses the findings along with what is available to learn about the industry, which finally helps throw light on some limitations encountered through the work as well as some general recommendations based on the findings.

Keywords: Internet Marketing, Financial Statement Analysis, Financial Behaviour, New Media

Suggested Citation:

Salam, Mohammed Tawsif, Understanding the Financial Behaviour of Digital Marketers (November 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2893502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2893502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
at the final stage of paper were utilized to make a set of recommendations for our subject company, which also borrowed from secondary information those we took from referenced external sources in the public domain
Available at: <shares.telegraph.co.uk/quote/?epic=AGS> Posted: 2012-12
Available at: <www.reuters.com/finance/stocks/financialHighlights?symbol=AEGS.L> Posted: 2012-12
Annual report Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,413
RANK
564,240
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies