Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Level of Online Financial Disclosure in the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries

Corporate Ownership & Control Journal, Volume 14, Issue 1, 2016

12 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2017

Abdalmuttaleb Musleh Al-Sartawi

Ahlia University

Date Written: January 4, 2017

Abstract

Online Financial Disclosure (OFD) is considered as one of the many outputs of advanced technology. The application of Online Financial Disclosure in the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries differs from one company to the other due to its voluntary nature and the lack of appropriate regulations. Therefore, this study aims to measure the level of Online Financial Disclosure in the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries. Extensive literature review was carried out and a checklist of 90 items (71 for content and 19 for presentation) was developed to measure the level of Online Financial Disclosure for the companies that are listed in the Gulf Cooperation Council Bourses. The findings show that the overall level of Online Financial Disclosure in the Gulf Cooperation Council is 77% but it is varies across the sampled firms according to countries and industry type. The study recommends that regulatory bodies should develop a guideline for disclosing information through the internet in order to enhance the corporate transparency level among the Gulf Cooperation Council listed companies.

Keywords: Online Financial Disclosure, Dimension of Content, Dimension of Presentation, Voluntary Disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Musleh Al-Sartawi, Abdalmuttaleb, Measuring the Level of Online Financial Disclosure in the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries (January 4, 2017). Corporate Ownership & Control Journal, Volume 14, Issue 1, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2893640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,508
RANK
401,129
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies