Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Global' Management Accounting Research: Some Reflections

Journal of International Accounting Research, Vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 1-8, Summer 2017

Posted: 6 Jan 2017 Last revised: 20 Nov 2017

Wim A. Van der Stede

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: January 3, 2017

Abstract

I start with some examples of global studies that compare and contrast "remedies" to management control and corporate governance issues across borders to expose the common tenet of such studies that "uniformity" of practices or regulations is "counter-productive" given national/cultural variations across countries. However, I critically evaluate this so-called "non-uniformity" prescription by considering the costs of local or situational adaptions. This naturally links with the "homogenizing" effects of globalization, where I ponder whether globalization might actually reduce the power of comparative studies across countries or regions, or whether, regardless, there remains great benefit to be had from studying "local" practices that can be theoretically generalized. I also offer some suggestions to help strengthen the design of comparative studies to try and maximize their (conceptual, if not econometric) power.

Keywords: Global accounting research, management accounting, corporate governance, global regulation

JEL Classification: C18, F68, G38, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Van der Stede, Wim A., 'Global' Management Accounting Research: Some Reflections (January 3, 2017). Journal of International Accounting Research, Vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 1-8, Summer 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2893195
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies