Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Capital Reporting Practices: Experience of Australia and India.

International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Vol. 5, Issue 12, Dec-2016

20 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2017

Madan Lal Bhasin

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: December 2016

Abstract

‘Knowledge’ being the new engine of corporate development has become one of the great clichés of recent years. Knowledge, innovation, information-technology, and people are the key contributories in the future of any organization, and IC is the driver of market value in the knowledge economy. Intangibles and how they contribute to value creation have to be appreciated so that the appropriate decisions can be made to protect and enhance them. There must also be a credible way of reporting those intangibles to the market to give the investors comprehensive information to assist in valuing the company more accurately. At present, reporting of IC information across the globe is done by very few leading companies, purely on a ‘voluntary’ basis. Unfortunately, the omission of IC information may adversely influence the quality of decisions made by shareholders, or lead to material misstatements.

This study attempts to provide an insight into the style of IC reporting done by the top IT-sector corporations from ‘India’ and ‘Australia’. In order to survey the recent IC reporting practices, we conducted a ‘comparative’ study of 16 Indian and 20 Australian companies in which the ‘content analysis’ was performed on their annual reports. The results of this study confirmed that ‘IC reporting by the companies from India and Australia are found to be low, mostly reported in a narrative form, and IC reporting had not received any preference from the mentors of these corporations.’ A major recommendation for corporations is to develop strategic and tactical initiatives that provide for ‘voluntary’ disclosing of IC. These initiatives may initially be used for internal management purposes, but an external stakeholder-focus IC report should be the ultimate long-run goal.

Keywords: Intellectual Capital, Reporting Practices, Information Technology Corporations, India, Australia

Suggested Citation:

Bhasin, Madan Lal, Intellectual Capital Reporting Practices: Experience of Australia and India. (December 2016). International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Vol. 5, Issue 12, Dec-2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2895337
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
I Abeysekera
Intellectual capital disclosing between a developing and developed nation
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 329 - 345 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D Andriessen
Intellectual capital valuation and measurement: classifying the state of the art
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 230 - 242 Posted: 2004
Crossref
N B Anuonye
IC Measurement: Using the earnings per share model of quoted insurance companies in Nigeria
International Business and Management , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 88 - 98 Posted: 2015
R A Bakar , R Ishak , K Hasnah
Reporting: evidence from Malaysia
Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 239 - 56 Posted: 2015-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,163
RANK
487,221
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies