Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock liquidity and default risk around the world

Journal of Financial Markets, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2017 Last revised: 21 Aug 2020

Sivathaasan Nadarajah

Griffith University

Huu Nhan Duong

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Searat Ali

University of Wollongong; University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Benjamin Liu

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Allen Huang

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Date Written: August 14, 2020

Abstract

We document the negative effect of stock liquidity on default risk for a sample of 46 countries. We further find that default risk declines following the introduction of the Directive on Markets in Financial Instruments (MiFID)—an exogenous shock that increases liquidity. The effect of liquidity on default risk is more pronounced in countries with poorer investor protection and information environments. Further, this effect is attenuated (strengthened) for firms with greater information efficiency (governance monitoring). Overall, our findings highlight the important role of regulatory settings in shaping the impact of stock liquidity on default risk in international markets.

Keywords: Stock liquidity; Default risk; Investor protection; Information environment; Regulatory settings; Governance monitoring

JEL Classification: G12; G14; G15; G32; G33; G34

Suggested Citation:

Nadarajah, Sivathaasan and Duong, Huu Nhan and Ali, Searat and Ali, Searat and Liu, Benjamin and Huang, Allen R., Stock liquidity and default risk around the world (August 14, 2020). Journal of Financial Markets, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2897996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,800
RANK
461,979
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies