Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Newspaper Censorship in China: Evidence from Tunneling Scandals

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting

63 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2017 Last revised: 4 May 2020

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Yi Li

Hunan University

Qiliang Liu

Wuhan University - School of Economics and Management

Han Wu

HEC Paris

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 3, 2020

Abstract

Media dissemination has an important function in facilitating price discovery. Political pressure that restricts media dissemination can hinder this function and affect investors’ perceptions. We investigate the magnitude and economic consequences of China’s newspaper censorship, which blocks further dissemination of firm-disclosed information, using a setting of “tunneling” scandals. We show significant evidence of censorship of tunneling-related negative news at both the national and the local levels. We further find that censorship leads to delays in the dissemination of tunneling news and that the news that survives censorship potentially targets less serious issues, which hinders the media’s dissemination function and delays incorporation of information into prices.

Keywords: Censorship, Media, Newspapers, China, Social and Economic Incentives, Local Protection, Information Environment, Market Reactions

JEL Classification: D83, F23, G30, G34, J50, M10, M16, M41, M48, N25, N45, O53

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Li, Yi and Liu, Qiliang and Wu, Han, Newspaper Censorship in China: Evidence from Tunneling Scandals (May 3, 2020). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, 28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2897758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2897758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C Bai , Y Du , Z Tao , S Y Tong
Local protectionism and regional specialization: evidence from China's industries
Journal of International Economics , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 397 - 417 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G Barone , G F. D&apos;acunto , Narciso
Telecracy: Testing for channels of persuasion
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 30 - 60 Posted: 2015
Crossref
E Blankespoor , C E. Dehaan , Zhu
Capital market effects of media synthesis and dissemination: Evidence from robo-journalism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2018
Crossref
B Bushee , J Core , W Guay , S Hamm
The Role of the Business Press as an Information Intermediary
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,247
RANK
27,528
6 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies