Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dark Side of Low Financial Reporting Frequency: Investors’ Reliance on Alternative Sources of Earnings News and Excessive Information Spillovers

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-7

52 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2019 Last revised: 10 Dec 2019

Salman Arif

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management

Emmanuel T. De George

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 16, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines how low financial reporting frequency affects investors’ reliance on alternative sources of earnings information. We find that the returns of semi-annual earnings announcers (i.e. low reporting frequency stocks, “LRF”) are almost twice as sensitive to the earnings announcement returns of US industry bellwether peers for non-reporting periods compared to reporting periods. Strikingly, these heightened spillovers are followed by return reversals when investors finally observe own-firm earnings at the subsequent semi-annual earnings announcement. This indicates that investors periodically overreact to peer-firm earnings news in the absence of own-firm earnings disclosures in interim periods. We also find elevated price volatility and trading volume around earnings announcements for non-reporting periods, consistent with theories of investor overconfidence. Collectively, our results suggest that investors are unable to successfully offset the information loss arising from low reporting frequency, thus impairing their ability to value firms and adversely affecting the quality of financial markets.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Frequency, Information Spillovers, Peer News, Bellwether Earnings News

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G14

Suggested Citation:

Arif, Salman and De George, Emmanuel T., The Dark Side of Low Financial Reporting Frequency: Investors’ Reliance on Alternative Sources of Earnings News and Excessive Information Spillovers (August 16, 2018). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 17-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2900988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2900988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
P Alves , P F Pope , S Young
Cross-border information transfers: Evidence from profit warnings issued by European firms
Accounting and Business Research , volume 39 , issue 5 , p. 449 - 472 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D Benoit
Time to End Quarterly Reports, Law Firm Says
Wall Street Journal Posted: 2015-08-19
J Berlau , C Kuiper
Column: Hillary Clinton's right on smashing 'quarterly capitalism' USA Today Posted: 2015-09-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,293
RANK
33,232
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies