Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption and Liquidity: A Comparative Analysis of Canada with Australia and the United Kingdom

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

54 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2017 Last revised: 8 Mar 2017

Shahid Khan

Pennsylvania State University

Mark C. Anderson

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Hussein A. Warsame

University of Calgary

Michael Wright

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 17, 2017

Abstract

In this study, we investigate the impact of countrywide adoption of IFRS on the liquidity of domestic versus international firms listed in a stock market. We consider two competing forces affecting liquidity from IFRS adoption: enhanced comparability of firms within industries that span international boundaries and less tailoring of financial reporting to meet local investor needs. We compare liquidity - bid-ask, zero returns and trading volume - before and after IFRS adoption for domestic and international firms listed on the Canadian exchanges with liquidity before and after IFRS adoption for firms listed on the Australian and U.K. exchanges. These three countries share the British influence on financial reporting historically and have similar legal and institutional settings. We expect that the benefits of global comparability would be relatively greater for firms listed on the U.K. exchanges relative to firms listed on the Canadian and Australian exchanges given the U.K.’s proximity and commerce with other European countries. For Canadian listings, we find that liquidity (bid-ask spreads and zero returns) increased for non-US international firms but decreased (all three variables) for Canadian domestic firms, consistent with trade-offs between international comparability and localization. We find that liquidity increased for both U.K. domestic and international firms listed on the U.K. exchanges but decreased for both types of firms listed on the Australian exchange. For Canadian firms, our exchange level tests indicate that TSX Venture exchange firms lost more liquidity than TSX exchange firms.

Keywords: IFRS, Comparability, Liquidity, Canada, U.K., Australia, local GAAP standards, Trading volume

JEL Classification: M41, C1

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Shahid and Anderson, Mark C. and Warsame, Hussein A. and Wright, Michael, IFRS Adoption and Liquidity: A Comparative Analysis of Canada with Australia and the United Kingdom (January 17, 2017). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2900844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the U. K
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D Amiram
Financial information globalization and foreign investment decisions
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 81 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Arbel , P Strebel
The neglected and small firm effects
The Financial Review , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 201 - 218 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
RANK
264,566
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies