Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Contingency Study of the Adoption of Competitor-Focused Accounting

Posted: 27 Feb 1997

Chris Guilding

Griffith University - School of Accounting and Finance - Gold Coast Campus

Date Written: Undated

Abstract

Using data collected via a questionnaire survey of large New Zealand companies, the results of investigating the incidence and perceived value of competitor-focused accounting (CFA) practices are reported. CFA usage has been found to be higher than what might have been anticipated given the minimal attention afforded the subject in the mainstream normative management accounting literature. It has also been found that New Zealand accountants are positively disposed to the potential of competitor-focused accounting in a manner suggestive of an opportunity for greater CFA usage. Following a factor analysis, it is suggested that CFA comprises two dimensions; these have been labelled "competitor monitoring" and "strategic accounting". Three factors have been found to play statistically significant contingent roles in connection with usage and perceptions of CFA. It has been found that larger companies and companies that emphasise gaining early entry to new markets (as opposed to low risk or defensive market strategies), have a greater tendency to use CFA practices and see a greater potential in the usefulness of CFA. Companies characterised as adopting a "build" rather than a "harvest" strategy see greater potential in the use of "strategic accounting".

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Guilding, Chris, A Contingency Study of the Adoption of Competitor-Focused Accounting (Undated). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2901
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,208
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies