Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Firms' Delisting Around Major Regulatory Shocks: The Cost-Benefit Tradeoff of the Financial Services Action Plan

51 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2017 Last revised: 18 Dec 2024

Elizabeth F. Gutierrez

Universidad de Chile

Maria Rykaczewski

Arizona State University

Maria Vulcheva

Florida International University

Date Written: October 23, 2024

Abstract

Between 1999 and 2005, the European Union adopted the Financial Services Action Plan (FSAP) to reshape its financial markets. In this paper, we examine the firm-level effect of this major regulatory shock. In pre/post-2005 analyses, we compare the probabilities of companies voluntarily or involuntarily delisting in seven European economies that strongly commit to implementing regulations and seven economies that apply regulations more leniently. Our findings indicate an increased probability of delisting after 2005, primarily due to involuntary delistings in economies that implement regulations strictly. Furthermore, we examine a core element of the FSAP, the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) mandate, which aimed to improve public firms' reporting and disclosure quality. IFRS continued to undergo rapid changes after 2005, and we document an incremental association between delisting and the post-2005 changes. Our results highlight the firm-level consequences of the FSAP across jurisdictions with varying institutional environments.

Keywords: securities market regulation; firm-level net effect; delisting; implementation commitment; FSAP; IFRS

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G38, K22, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gutierrez, Elizabeth F. and Rykaczewski, Maria and Vulcheva, Maria, European Firms' Delisting Around Major Regulatory Shocks: The Cost-Benefit Tradeoff of the Financial Services Action Plan (October 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2903679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
D Aghanya , V Agarwal , S Poshakwale
Market in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID), stock price informativeness and liquidity
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 113 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2020
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Allison
Logistic regression for rare events Posted: 2012
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,232
RANK
180,250
6 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies