Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Standards for Corporate Financial Reporting: Regulatory Competition within and Across International Boundaries

27 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2001

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: November 2001

Abstract

Most financial reporting jurisdictions across the world allow a local monopoly in financial reporting standards for publicly held corporations. In the U.S., for example, the statutory authority over these standards is vested in the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), who delegates the task of writing standards to the Financial Accounting Standards Board, retaining an oversight function for itself. In some countries these standards are specified through statutes in varying levels of detail. Few countries permit their corporations to choose among two or more sets of competing standards; monopoly is the reigning norm. This paper examines regulatory competition as a model for writing and implementing corporate financial standards. Under this model, two or more approved standard setting bodies are allowed to compete for the allegiance of the reporting entities. Each corporation can choose which of the two or more sets of competing standards it wishes to use in preparing its financial reports. Corporations must choose an entire set of standards in toto, and clearly mark the reports with the set of standards used to prepare them. We examine the consequences of such regulatory competition for the quality and efficiency of standards, quality of information provided to shareholders and other interested parties, and the efficiency of corporate governance and managerial actions. A debate on the merits of monopoly versus competitive standards may help direct the formation of national and international regimes for setting accounting standards.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, Regulatory Competition, International

JEL Classification: L51, M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Standards for Corporate Financial Reporting: Regulatory Competition within and Across International Boundaries (November 2001). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=290599 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.290599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Andrew Alford , Jennifer Jones , Richard Leftwich , Mark Zmijewiski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
L A Bebchuck
Federalism and the Corporation: The Desirable Limits on State Competition in Corporate Law
Harvard Law Review , volume 105 , p. 1435 - 50 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Christine Botosan
Disclosure Level and the Cost of Equity Capital
The Accounting Review , p. 323 - 372 Posted: 1997-07
Christine Botosan , Marlene A Plumlee
A Reexamination of Disclosure Level of Expected Cost of Equity Capital Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,691
RANK
39,672
8 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies