Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Establishing a Multi-Stakeholder Board for Multinational Corporations

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2017/002

23 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2017 Last revised: 13 Mar 2017

Ho Ting Hugo Chu

The University of Hong Kong - Asian Institute of International Financial Law; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law; University College Dublin (UCD) - Michael Smurfit Graduate School of Business; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Department of Applied Social Sciences; Montpellier Business School

Date Written: December 16, 2016

Abstract

Several corporate scandals are related to lack of concerning stakeholders’ interest. The voice of enhancing stakeholders’ engagement in corporate governance framework is increasing. The paper is aimed to determine the pragmatic and applicable one-tier and two-tier board models for integrating stakeholders as board directors in multinational corporations. It begins with discussing why multinational corporations need to concern on stakeholders’ interest and analysing different theoretical approaches for linking board composition with financial performance and corporate social performance. It will then review corporate governance frameworks integrating stakeholders’ engagement in various jurisdictions and economic status (i.e. emerging markets and developed markets). Finally, pragmatic multi-stakeholder board models for one-tier and two-tier board structures will be proposed through defining board composition, CEO duality and mechanism to resolve disputes arise from board members.

Keywords: Board Diversity, Corporate Governance, Multinational Corporations, Multi-Stakeholder Board, Stakeholders Theory, Shareholder Supremacy, Board of Directors, Role of Directors, Independent Directors, Stakeholder Governance, Corporate Social Performance, Board Structure, Corporate Scandals, CSR

JEL Classification: G3, F23,M14, M16, O16

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Hugo, Establishing a Multi-Stakeholder Board for Multinational Corporations (December 16, 2016). University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2017/002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906576 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2906576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
C Ajibo
A critique of enlightened shareholder value: Revisiting the shareholder primacy theory
Birkbeck Law Review , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 58 Posted: 2014
Altas Copco
Business Code of Practice Posted: 2012
T Ambler , A Wilson
Problems of stakeholder theory
Business Ethics , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 35 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Antonio Argandoña
Stakeholder Theory and Value Creation
IESE Business School Working Paper No. 922 Pages: 15 Posted: 22 Oct 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,249
RANK
225,151
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies