Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Important are Earnings Announcements in China?

23 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2017 Last revised: 21 Feb 2017

Liping Zou

School of Economics and Finance, Massey Univeristy, Albany

William R. Wilson

Massey University - School of Economics & Finance

Date Written: January 29, 2017

Abstract

The Chinese equity market is becoming more and more important for market participants, however, information may be difficult to obtain and interpret. Using data from the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, for the period from 2005 to 2014 the efficiency of this market is examined over this period. We quantify the relative importance of earnings announcements using a metric developed by Ball and Shivakumar (2008) and Basu, Duong, Markov, and Tan (2013), to determine the level of new information contained in earnings announcements. The overall finding is that earning announcements contain little information of value thus, demonstrating the Chinese markets are not informationally efficient, so investors cannot assume assets are always correctly priced as they are in other markets.

Keywords: China Stock Market, Earnings Announcements, Market Efficiency, Information

JEL Classification: G14, G15

Suggested Citation:

Zou, Liping and Wilson, William R., How Important are Earnings Announcements in China? (January 29, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2907729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2907729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
J Aharony , I Swary
Quarterly dividend and earnings announcements and stockholders' returns: An empirical analysis
The Journal of Finance , volume 35 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1980
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
M Bajaj , A M Vijh
Dividend clienteles and the information content of dividend changes
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 26 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,343
RANK
446,627
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies