Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Evidence of the Disclosure and Assurance of Integrated Reporting - A Content Analysis of the IIRC Examples Database

Zeitschrift für Umweltrecht & Umweltpolitik (Forthcoming)

Posted: 14 Feb 2017

Martin Stawinoga

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Helmut Schmidt Universität

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: February 14, 2017

Abstract

After the financial crisis 2008/09, the limitations of corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting were criticized internationally. Thus, the need of connectivity of financial and non-financial information within an integrated report according to the framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) has significantly increased. Our analysis illustrates to what extent integrated reporting is being applied in current business practice. Therefore we analyse all integrated reports provided on the website of the IIRC Examples Database with a special focus on reporting entities located in member states of the European Union. Our content analysis illustrates a huge importance of the voluntary implementation of integrated reporting within the European Union member states and an increased demand for integrated reporting assurance. The external verification is regularly based upon a reasonable assurance level. Furthermore, a lack of key elements and reporting principles of the IIRC framework (reliability & completeness, consistency & comparability) can be found. Insofar, the decision usefulness of integrated reporting practice has to be enhanced in the future.

Keywords: Integrated reporting; CSR reporting; CSR management; stakeholder management; corporate goverannce

JEL Classification: M42; G34

Suggested Citation:

Stawinoga, Martin and Velte, Patrick, Empirical Evidence of the Disclosure and Assurance of Integrated Reporting - A Content Analysis of the IIRC Examples Database (February 14, 2017). Zeitschrift für Umweltrecht & Umweltpolitik (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2916734
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,991
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies