Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explaining Anomalies in Australia with a Five-Factor Asset Pricing Model

International Review of Finance, Forthcoming

26 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2017

Thanh Huynh

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance

Date Written: August 5, 2016

Abstract

This paper compares the ability of three- and five-factor asset-pricing models to explain the apparent profitability of a broad selection of anomalies in Australian equity returns. Rather than examining the fit of each model to common test portfolios, our focus is on the spread return to long-short trading strategies designed around so-called anomalies. After documenting significant spread returns to 16 anomalies (including several not previously studied in Australia), the empirical analysis provides cautious support that the recently-proposed investment and profitability factors have a role to play. The number of anomalies that remain after risk adjustment decreases under the five-factor model. Further, while the magnitude of reduction in alpha is modest, our testing shows that it is statistically significant in many cases. However, both three- and five-factor models repeatedly fail the GRS test, suggesting that the quest for a better asset-pricing model is not yet complete.

Keywords: anomalies, Fama-French asset-pricing models, risk factors, Australian market

Suggested Citation:

Huynh, Thanh D., Explaining Anomalies in Australia with a Five-Factor Asset Pricing Model (August 5, 2016). International Review of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2918597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
E Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
A R Ang , R J Hodrick , J Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 259 - 99 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C S Asness , T J Moskowitz , L H Pedersen
Value and momentum everywhere
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , p. 929 - 985 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Basu
The relationship between earnings yield, market value, and return for NYSE common stocks: Further evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 25 , p. 278 - 313 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Nusret Cakici , Adam Zaremba , Robert J. Bianchi , Nga Pham
False Discoveries in the Anomaly Research: New Insights from the Stock Exchange of Melbourne (1927-1987)
47 Pages · Posted: 10 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 21 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 163
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,548
RANK
344,239
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies