Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decision-Usefulness and Stewardship As Conceptual Framework Objectives: Continuing Challenges

41 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2017

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Rowena M.S. Sinclair

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: February 16, 2016

Abstract

While, since 2006, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has held decision-usefulness to be the primary objective of financial reporting, constituents have consistently called for stewardship/accountability to be a second objective. Such strong lobbying has led the IASB to amend the objectives of financial reporting by increasing the prominence of stewardship, favoured by many European constituents. However, these two objectives have different theoretical bases and the potential users have different needs. Two different objectives should result, at times, in different presentation and measurement. The purpose of this paper is to project the implications if the IASB prioritizes dual objectives (decision-usefulness and stewardship) for general purpose financial reporting of both monetary and non-monetary information. We analyse specific potential conflicts in extant financial reporting standards. A potential solution to the IASB’s dilemma is to balance constituents’ demands by explicitly acknowledging which users’ needs are being pursued and why.

Keywords: Accountability, Conceptual Framework, Decision-usefulness, Hybrid model, Stewardship, Users’ needs

Suggested Citation:

Cordery, Carolyn J. and Sinclair, Rowena M.S., Decision-Usefulness and Stewardship As Conceptual Framework Objectives: Continuing Challenges (February 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2918784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2918784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
The Corporate Report. London: Accounting Standards Steering Committee Posted: 1975
Crossref
M Alam
Stakeholder Theory
Methodological Issues in Accounting Research: Theories and Methods , p. 207 - 222 Posted: 2006
R Ball , L Shivakumar
How Much New Information Is There in Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 975 - 1015 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M E Barth
Measurement in Financial Reporting: The Need for Concepts, Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , p. 331 - 352 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,333
RANK
15,801
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies