Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Challenge of Setting Standards for a Worldwide Constituency: Research Implications from the IASB's Early History

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2017

Kees Camfferman

Free University of Amsterdam

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: February 20, 2017

Abstract

Based on Camfferman & Zeff (2015) we reflect on possibilities for academic research on the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and its International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). We argue that a research agenda may be formed around the notion that the IASB differs from national standard setters because its constituent base includes jurisdictions as well as the more traditional preparer, user and auditor constituency groups. We show that taking a jurisdictional angle draws attention to the variety among the IASB’s jurisdictional constituents, identifying numerous research possibilities related to their decisions to adopt, or not to adopt, IFRSs, and to the mechanisms they have developed to form their own IFRS policies and to interact with the IASB. We illustrate how the IASB’s structure, governance, processes and standards are influenced by the challenge of reconciling the needs and values of a jurisdictional constituents with the objective of setting global accounting standards. We call for research on the ramifications of the diversity of jurisdictional constituents, as well as changing perceptions of standard setting within jurisdictions, for all aspects of the functioning of the IASB. Such research should make greater use of the variety of sources available to researchers today.

Suggested Citation:

Camfferman, Kees and Zeff, Stephen A., The Challenge of Setting Standards for a Worldwide Constituency: Research Implications from the IASB's Early History (February 20, 2017). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2920606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
See for instance Request for Views: Trustees' Review of Structure and Effectiveness: Issues for the Review (IFRS Foundation , p. 23 - 39 Posted: 2015-07
M Abela , A Mora
Understanding the consequences of accounting standards in Europe: The role of EFRAG
Europe , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 170 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Adhikari , L Betancourt , F Alshameri
The SEC's proposed IFRS roadmap: An analysis of comment letters using content analysis and textual software
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 98 - 108 Posted: 2014
Crossref
N Albu , C N Albu , S Bunea , D A Calu , M M Girbina
A story about IAS/IFRS implementation in Romania
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 76 - 100 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,947
RANK
393,016
3 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Comparative Political Economy: Regulation eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies