Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Informativeness of Uncertainty Analysis Disclosure Under TFAS No. 40 in the Insurance Industry

Journal of Accounting Review, Vol. 64, 39-59, 2017

21 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2017

Chi-Chun Liu

National Taiwan University

Yi-Ping Liao

Fu-Jen Catholic University

Szu-Jung Wu

National Cheng Kung University

Date Written: February 22, 2017

Abstract

Aiming to provide a confidence interval of the point estimate of reported accounting performance measures, uncertainty analysis disclosure is usually considered to contain valuable information (IASB, 2010; CFO Forum, 2009), However, little empirical evidence has been documented. As the first to examine the relevance of such disclosures, we examine the mandatory disclosures of Taiwanese insurance companies during the period 2011–2014 and find a positive relationship between the absolute values of earnings effects due to changes in actuarial assumptions and the insurers’ earnings change in the subsequent periods. In addition, because the risk management committee is responsible for formulating and implementing the risk management policies of an insurance company, we predict and find that the informativeness of the uncertainty analysis disclosure is improved by the quality of the risk management committee, measured by the committee size and the attendance of the committee members. Our findings provide critical insights for regulators when applying the International Accounting Standards.

Keywords: Uncertainty analysis, Informativeness, TFAS No. 40, Risk management committee.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G22

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Chi-Chun and Liao, Yi-Ping and Wu, Szu-Jung, The Informativeness of Uncertainty Analysis Disclosure Under TFAS No. 40 in the Insurance Industry (February 22, 2017). Journal of Accounting Review, Vol. 64, 39-59, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2921728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009-11
Crossref
N C Brown , T E Christensen , W B Elliott , R D Mergenthaler
Investor sentiment and pro forma earnings disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 50 Posted: 2012-03
Crossref
Market consistent embedded value: Basis for conclusions Posted: 2009-10-30
I Choi
When do companies need a board-level risk management committee? Private Sector Opinion Posted: 2013-07-29
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,269
RANK
623,124
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies