Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposal for a Council Directive on a Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB) of 25 October 2016 – A Comparative and Critical Legal Analysis of the Profit Assessment

Posted: 2 Mar 2017

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Oliver Mock

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

On 25 October 2016, the European Commission has presented a proposal for a council directive on a Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB). This proposal includes a comprehensive approach to the harmonization of rules for calculating the corporate tax base within the EU. In the present paper, the tax accounting regulations in the new proposed directive are compared with the German commercial and tax law as well as the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Based on the legal comparison, amendments for specific adjustments are developed within the framework of a critical appraisal.

Keywords: corporate tax base, legal comparison, council directive, tax accounting law, international tax law

JEL Classification: K34, K33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick and Mock, Oliver, Proposal for a Council Directive on a Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB) of 25 October 2016 – A Comparative and Critical Legal Analysis of the Profit Assessment (March 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2925862
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,613
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies