Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Annual Reports Communicate Strategic Issues? Insight into Reporting Practices of High-Tech Companies

Global Challenges of Management Control and Reporting, Nowak M., Dyczkowska J. [eds.], Research Papers of Wroclaw University of Economics, No 441, p. 47-64

23 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2017

Joanna Dyczkowska

Wroclaw University of Economics

Date Written: January 29, 2016

Abstract

Due to rapid technological progress high-tech companies are expected to be forward-looking in order to ensure shareholder value creation and respond adequately to customer needs. Moreover, stakeholders may expect that high-tech companies will inform them about strategic plans and related aspects which cover knowledge on current activities and business model, business environment and R&D achievements. Accordingly, this paper examines the extent of strategic disclosures included in 69 annual reports of IT companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. It explores also whether two factors: market value of a firm and its place of listing are related with the extent of strategic disclosures. Lastly, it scrutinizes whether a place of listing may be perceived as a moderator variable that influences a strength of a relationship between a market value of a firm and the extent of strategic disclosures. The research results suggest that the examined entities reported poorly on R&D activities and sufficiently on risk factors and future perspectives. The developmental strategy was disclosed often, however, only in annual reports of stock issuers listed on the primary market. The in-depth analysis shows that both the firm’s market value and the place of listing may be perceived separately as factors which induce managers to disclose more strategic issues. Nonetheless, the empirical results do not prove that a place of listing moderates an effect between market value and the extent of strategic disclosure.

Keywords: market value, place of listing, strategic disclosure index

Suggested Citation:

Dyczkowska, Joanna, Do Annual Reports Communicate Strategic Issues? Insight into Reporting Practices of High-Tech Companies (January 29, 2016). Global Challenges of Management Control and Reporting, Nowak M., Dyczkowska J. [eds.], Research Papers of Wroclaw University of Economics, No 441, p. 47-64, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2925398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
V Beattie , W Mcinnes , S Fearnley
A methodology for analyzing and evaluating narratives in annual reports: a comprehensive descriptive profile and metrics for disclosure quality attributes
Accounting Forum , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 205 - 236 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Blacksun
The first 20 -the concise strategic report paradox. Analysis of how the FTSE 350 September year ends have responded to the changing reporting environment Posted: 2014
C A Botosan
Disclosure level and the cost of equity capital, The Accounting Review , volume 72 , p. 323 - 349 Posted: 1997
D Campbell , P Shrives , H Bohmbach-Saager
Voluntary Disclosure of Mission Statements in Corporate Annual Reports: Signaling What and To Whom?
Business and Society Review , volume 106 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 87 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,176
RANK
864,731
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies