Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of IFRS Adoption on the Unconditional Conservatism of Spanish Listed Companies

Posted: 3 Mar 2017 Last revised: 16 May 2018

Olga Fullana

University of Valencia; Universitat de València

Mariano Gonzalez-Sanchez

Universidad CEU Cardenal Herrera

David Toscano

University of Huelva

Date Written: May 2018

Abstract

This paper analyses the effects on unconditional conservatism of the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by Spanish listed companies in January 2005. The lack of robustness in the previous evidence justifies analysing this issue from different perspectives. To this end, we use, for the first time in this context, Ahmed and Duellman’s methodology (J. Account. Econ., 2007). In its design, these authors consider the impact of growth options and other future incomes, controlling for the idiosyncratic factors that the literature has found to condition this type of conservatism. Additionally, beyond the pooled regression techniques usually used, we use econometric panel data techniques, which minimize the possible effect of endogeneity in the estimation of the proposed models. The results provide new evidence that supports our hypothesis that the adoption of IFRS has reduced the unconditional conservatism of Spanish listed companies.

Keywords: Balance-sheet conservatism, idiosyncratic factors, mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, panel data analysis, value of growth options

JEL Classification: C31, C33, C52, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fullana, Olga and Gonzalez-Sanchez, Mariano and Toscano, David, The Effects of IFRS Adoption on the Unconditional Conservatism of Spanish Listed Companies (May 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2926896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2926896
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,056
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies