Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Avoiding China's Capital Market: Evidence from Hong Kong-Listed Red-Chips and P-Chips

42 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2017

Weishi Jia

Cleveland State University - Monte Ahuja College of Business

Grace Pownall

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Jingran Zhao

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: March 5, 2017

Abstract

There is a long line of Chinese firms waiting for government approval to list on mainland Chinese or international stock exchanges. There are also hundreds of Chinese firms that have not received government listing approval, but have reorganized themselves as overseas corporations, followed by listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. These overseas corporations with mainland Chinese operations and Hong Kong listings are called "Red-chips" if they are state-owned entities (SOEs) and "P-chips" if they are not SOEs. We use a comprehensive sample of Chinese firms listed in mainland China and in Hong Kong to test whether Red-chips and P-chips are (a) more likely to be firms the Chinese government does not want on mainland exchanges (because they are neither the largest and most profitable Chinese firms nor the most politically connected), or (b) likely to be firms that eschew Chinese exchanges in favor of the Hong Kong capital market (because of the immediacy of the approval process in Hong Kong or for more efficient pricing in a better-behaved market). We find that more politically connected SOEs are listed on Chinese stock exchanges, and that larger and more profitable non-SOEs are listed in Hong Kong as P-chips, for the overwhelming majority of which we can find no evidence that they ever applied for government approval to IPO. We conclude that the largest and most profitable Chinese firms that are unconstrained by their relationships with central and provincial government prefer to be listed in the Hong Kong capital market.

Suggested Citation:

Jia, Weishi and Pownall, Grace and Zhao, Jingran, Avoiding China's Capital Market: Evidence from Hong Kong-Listed Red-Chips and P-Chips (March 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2927859 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2927859
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
J Aharony , C Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Cliff S. Asness , Andrea Frazzini , Lasse Heje Pedersen
Quality Minus Junk
Pages: 80 Posted: 19 Aug 2013 Last revised: 10 Jun 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Best , J Soulier
International securities law handbook , volume 5 Posted: 2005
G Chen , M Firth , L Xu
Does the Type of Ownership Control Matter? Evidence from China's Listed Companies
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 171 - 181 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,003
RANK
422,861
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies