Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Nexus of Dividend Payout and Profitability Performance of Insurance Firms in Nigeria

14 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2017

Taofeek Agbatogun

Abeokuta Federal University of Agriculture (UNAAB)

Ademola Adewumi

Abeokuta Federal University of Agriculture (UNAAB)

Date Written: March 8, 2017

Abstract

The article examined the influence of profitability performance on dividend payout of insurance firms in Nigeria for duration of five years 2010–2014 using multiple regression. The study used dividend payout as a dependent variable which is measured in form of ratio to the earning per share against return on Asset, Return on Equity and Return on Investment, profitability ratios as explanatory variables. Data has been collected from company’s annual reports, Nigeria Stock Exchange and Bureau of Statistics, where it was discovered that there is no high significant influence between the dividend payout and the profitability performance. Meanwhile, there is high significant of return on investment on the dividend payout of the firms. It was recommended that government should improve on the macro-economy policies so as to increase the strength of the insurance firms in Nigeria.

Keywords: Dividend Payout, Profitability Performance, Return on Asset, Return on Equity, Return on Investment

Suggested Citation:

Agbatogun, Taofeek and Adewumi, Ademola, The Nexus of Dividend Payout and Profitability Performance of Insurance Firms in Nigeria (March 8, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2929492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2929492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M Abdolghafour , Z Hassan , M Shahrzad
Study the Relationship between Dividend Yield and Investments in Fixed Assets of Active Companies in , volume 3 Posted: 2014
J O Abiola
Measuring and Analyzing the Effects Of Dividend Policy In Banking Profits And Growth
Journal of Policy and Development Studies , volume 9 , issue 1 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Aduda , H &amp;kimathi
The Applicability of the Constant Dividend Model for Companies Listed at the Nairobi Stock Exchange
Journal of Financial Studies & Research , volume 11 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Amidu
How does dividend policy affect performance of the firm on Ghana stock Exchange
Investment Management and Financial Innovations , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 104 - 112 Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Odunayo Magret Olarewaju , Stephen Oseko Migiro , Mabutho Sibanda
Dividend Payout, Retention Policy and Financial Performance in Commercial Banks: Any Causal Relationship?
Studia Universitatis Babeș-Bolyai Oeconomica , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 37 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,725
RANK
373,668
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies