Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National GAAP - Evidence from France

Accounting in Europe, A Journal of the European Accounting Association, Forthcoming

10 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2017 Last revised: 24 Mar 2017

Anne Le Manh

ESCP Business School,

Date Written: march 9, 2017

Abstract

In France, the European Accounting directive has been implemented via a decree and a ministerial order, issued without any public consultation and which led to an amendment of the Commercial Code and three regulations released by the ANC, the French standard-setter. Our analysis of those texts reveals that none of them refer to IFRS. We did not find evidence of any reference to IFRS from the AMF, the French market regulator, in its decisions on the right application of French GAAP by listed companies. Hence, IFRS seem to have played a minor role in the recent modification of French regulations resulting from the implementation of the European accounting directive.

Keywords: European Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU, French Accounting Regulations, ANC, IFRS

JEL Classification: M48, M41, M40

Suggested Citation:

Le Manh, Anne, The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National GAAP - Evidence from France (march 9, 2017). Accounting in Europe, A Journal of the European Accounting Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2934600
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
D Baert , G Yanno
Rapport d'information relatif aux enjeux des nouvelles normes comptables, dit rapport Baert-Yanno Posted: 2009
A Burlaud , B Colasse
International Accounting Standardisation: Is Politics Back? Accounting in Europe , volume 8 , p. 23 - 47 Posted: 2011
Crossref
B Colasse , C Pochet
The genesis of the 2007 Conseil National de la Comptabilité : A Case of Institutional Isomorphism ?
Accounting in Europe , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 55 Posted: 2009
Crossref
P Delvaille , G Ebbers , C Saccon
International financial reporting convergence : Evidence from three Continental European Countries
Accounting In Europe , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 64 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
784
RANK
640,442
1 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies