Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS for SMEs on the Financial Reporting Environment of Private Firms: An Exploratory Interview Study

Accounting and Business Research (Forthcoming)

42 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2017

Joachim Gassen

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: March 29, 2017

Abstract

I investigate how the International Financial Reporting Standard for Small and Medium-sized Entities (IFRS for SMEs) contributes to the development of private firm financial reporting. I interview a sample of leading accounting experts from 24 jurisdictions around the globe to understand the role of private firm financial reporting and financial transparency in their jurisdiction as well as the importance of IFRS for SMEs. I find significant variation across jurisdictions in my sample and document that IFRS for SMEs predominantly influenced private firm financial reporting and transparency by serving as a blueprint for national regulatory reforms. In some jurisdictions, IFRS for SMEs has also been adopted as an optional reporting framework. Direct firm-level adoption of IFRS for SMEs has been low in these jurisdictions with the exception of South Africa where it seems to be used relatively widely. Based on my response data, I suggest some potential rationales for my findings and discuss potential reasons for the observed cross-jurisdiction variation in private firm financial transparency and IFRS for SMEs adoption.

Keywords: IFRS for SMEs, financial reporting, private firms, standard setting, financial transparency

JEL Classification: M41, G18

Suggested Citation:

Gassen, Joachim, The Effect of IFRS for SMEs on the Financial Reporting Environment of Private Firms: An Exploratory Interview Study (March 29, 2017). Accounting and Business Research (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2942923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
C N Albu , N Albu , S F Pali-Pister , M M Girbina , S K Selimoglu , D M Kovacs , J Lukacs , G Mohl , L Müllerova , M Pasekova , A P Arsoy , B Sipahi , J Strouhal
Implementation of IFRS for SMEs in Emerging Economies: Stakeholder Perceptions in the
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 140 - 175 Posted: 2013
Moritz Bassemir
Why Do Private Firms Adopt IFRS?
Accounting and Business Research, Volume 48, Issue 3, 2018 Pages: 51 Posted: 27 Jul 2011 Last revised: 20 Mar 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
U Brüggemann , J.-M Hitz , T Sellhorn
Intended and unintended consequences of mandatory IFRS adoption: A review of extant evidence and suggestions for future research
European Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2013
Crossref
H.-B Christensen
Why do firms rarely adopt IFRS voluntarily? Academics find significant benefits and the costs appear to be low
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 518 - 525 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
784
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,210
RANK
73,066
2 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies