Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Components in Banks' Income Statements and Their Relevance for Equity and Bond Investors

26 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2017

Savvas Papadopoulos

Halmstad University - School of Business, Innovation and Sustainability (FIH)

Jan Peter Marton

University of Gothenburg

Date Written: March 30, 2017

Abstract

In this paper we study the relative effect on stock and bond markets of different components in banks’ income statements. We divide the operating part of the income statement into loan loss provisions (LLP) and all other operating income. Our hypothesis is that LLPs – which relate to default probability in banks – give a stronger effect on bond markets. Meanwhile, other parts of operating income – which provide a general measure of performance – gives a stronger effect on stock markets. Results confirm this hypothesis.

Although there is a large literature on the relevance of accounting for credit losses, it tends to focus on relevance for shareholders rather than debtholders. Our findings suggest that debtholders are primary users relating to accounting for credit losses. This suggests a rebalancing in the user focused in research.

Keywords: Loan Loss Provisions, Banks, Equity Investors, Bond Investors

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Papadopoulos, Savvas and Marton, Jan Peter, Components in Banks' Income Statements and Their Relevance for Equity and Bond Investors (March 30, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2943677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2943677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , C Mccarthy
Use of loan loss provisions for capital, earnings management and signalling by Australian banks
Accounting & Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 357 - 379 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , G Sadka
Is financial reporting shaped by equity markets or by debt markets? An international study of timeliness and conservatism
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 13 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 168 - 205 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,723
RANK
397,014
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies