Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loan Loss Provisioning in OIC Countries: Evidence from Conventional vs. Islamic Banks

Journal of King Abdulaziz University: Islamic Economics, Vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 23-59, (January 2015)

45 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2017

Ali Ashraf

Frostburg State University

M. Kabir Hassan

University of New Orleans - College of Business Administration - Department of Economics and Finance

Syed Abul Basher

Independent Researcher

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 25, 2014

Abstract

Using a sample of 291 banks from 35 OIC (Organization of Islamic Conference) member Muslim countries with 2078 bank year observations from 2003 to 2008, we analyze if bank earning management in terms of Loan Loss Provisioning (LLP hereafter) is affected by the banking nature whether Islamic or conventional, by the bank accounting standards whether rulebased local GAAP or principle-based IFRS, and by the bank listing status. We argue that Islamic banks may exhibit lower signs of earning management, as the Sharia’h Supervisory Boards (SSB hereafter) in Islamic banks may work as an additional tier into the governance system. On the use of accounting standard, we argue that banks using IFRS standard may exhibit lower evidence of earning management, as IFRS requires managers to disclose more accounting information as compared to Local GAAP. We report empiric results supporting both the arguments.

Keywords: International Financial Markets, Banks, Other Depository Institutions, Micro Finance Institutions, Mortgages, Accounting

JEL Classification: G15, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ashraf, Ali and Hassan, M. Kabir and Basher, Syed Abul, Loan Loss Provisioning in OIC Countries: Evidence from Conventional vs. Islamic Banks (January 25, 2014). Journal of King Abdulaziz University: Islamic Economics, Vol. 28, No. 1, pp. 23-59, (January 2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2944491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,423
RANK
416,133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies