Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does a Principle Based Accounting Standard Improve the Disclosure Level? Evidence from the Adoption of IAS 19R

71 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2017

Zishan Lin

University of Vaasa, Department of Accounting and Finance, Students

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This research investigates whether a principle based accounting standard improves the disclosure level, and uses the latest pension accounting standard- IAS 19R as the subject. More specifically, this essay examines whether IAS 19R affects the average disclosure level of the actuarial assumptions (DAS). 200 companies are chosen from four European countries (i.e. Germany, Sweden, France, and Italy) as the sample, and the data is hand-collected by reviewing the annual reports of each firm when the firm first adopted the IAS 19R and one year before. The results indicate that the IAS19R significantly improves the average DAS, whilst also reducing the comparability of the disclosed pension information. Moreover, companies with more foreign ownership have a higher DAS after adopting the IAS 19R. This study advances the studies of principle based accounting standards. It provides current and comprehensive empirical research of the IAS 19R, with an in-depth examination of textual, quantitative and sensitive disclosure to get a clearer understanding of the DAS under IAS 19R. This essay may also contribute to a better understanding of the IAS 19R and provide useful feedback to the IASB concerning the implications of the IAS 19R.

Keywords: actuarial assumptions, IAS 19R, IAS 19, pension accounting, disclosure level, comparability

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Zishan, Does a Principle Based Accounting Standard Improve the Disclosure Level? Evidence from the Adoption of IAS 19R (2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2945851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2945851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements, Auditing
A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: A meta-analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting incentives in four Asian countries, and implications for acceptance of IAS
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
RANK
373,668
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies