Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and the Usefulness of Accounting Information in Predicting Future Earnings and Cash Flows

51 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2017 Last revised: 11 Jun 2021

Siyi Li

California State University, Fullerton - Department of Accounting

Theodore Sougiannis

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Sophia Wang

California State University, Fullerton

Date Written: April 7, 2017

Abstract

We examine whether the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) has changed the usefulness of accounting information in predicting future earnings and cash flows out-of-sample. Using a sample of firms from European Union countries that mandatorily adopted IFRS in 2005, we find the out-of-sample earnings and cash flows forecasts become significantly more accurate after IFRS adoption. Improvements in earnings forecast accuracy vary with the strength of legal enforcement but not with the strength of securities regulation and differences between domestic accounting standards (DAS) and IFRS while improvements in cash flow forecast accuracy do not vary with institutional characteristics. Total accruals are useful in the prediction of earnings both before and after IFRS adoption and their usefulness does not vary with institutional characteristics. However, total accruals are useful in the prediction of cash flows only after IFRS adoption and their usefulness does not depend on institutional characteristics. Accrual components do not have incremental predictive ability over total accruals. Earnings are (not) more informative about future cash flows than cash flows alone in countries with weak (strong) enforcement/regulation and high (low) DAS differences from IFRS. Portfolios of stocks based on the out-of-sample forecasts generate higher hedge returns after IFRS adoption, which corroborates the detected forecast accuracy improvements. Overall, an important dimension of accounting quality, predictive ability of future earnings and cash flows, has improved after mandatory IFRS adoption.

Keywords: IFRS, out-of-sample prediction, earnings, cash flows

JEL Classification: M41, G15, G17, G18

Suggested Citation:

Li, Siyi and Sougiannis, Theodore and Wang, Sophia, Mandatory IFRS Adoption and the Usefulness of Accounting Information in Predicting Future Earnings and Cash Flows (April 7, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2948775 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2948775
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Do earnings reported under IFRS tell us more about future earnings and cash flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: the impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Mohamed Ibrahim Mohamed Hessian
The Impact of IFRS Adoption on Earnings Management Activities and Value Relevance of Accounting Information: Applied Study
International Journal of Business Ethics and Governance , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 11 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Jairaj Gupta , Mariachiara Barzotto
Insights on Bankruptcy Emergence
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2018
Crossref
André Aroldo Freitas de Moura , Jairaj Gupta
Mandatory adoption of IFRS in Latin America: A boon or a bias
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 60 , p. 111 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Esmaeil Dargahi , Arash Tahriri
Representing a Model for Implementing International Financial Reporting Standards in Iran
Revista de la Universidad del Zulia , volume 11 , issue 31 , p. 141 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,225
RANK
31,567
6 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies