Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Group Membership and IFRS Reporting: The Effect of Group Financing and Investing Incentives.

47 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2017

Paul André

University of Bristol Business School

Fani Kalogirou

UCP-Católica Lisbon School of Business and Economics

Date Written: April 10, 2017

Abstract

Many unlisted firms are part of large conglomerate groups. For these firms, decisions about reporting practices are expected to be made at the group level (Beuselinck et al. 2014). Consistent with this hypothesis, our results indicate that group membership increases the likelihood of IFRS adoption by UK unlisted firms. Further, the identity and incentives of the parent firm are important determinants of the adoption decision. More specifically, our results suggest that subsidiaries adopt IFRS as part of their group’s strategy to improve the monitoring and optimise the financing and investing activities across the group, as portrayed by a subsequent increase in the investment efficiency at the subsidiary level and an increase in the probability of future debt issuance at the group level.

Keywords: financial reporting, IFRS, business groups, unlisted firms, investment efficiency

JEL Classification: F23, G11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Andre, Paul and Kalogirou, Fani, Business Group Membership and IFRS Reporting: The Effect of Group Financing and Investing Incentives. (April 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2949869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2949869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P André , A Filip , S Marmousez
L'impact des normes IFRS sur la relation entre le conservatisme et l'efficacité des politiques d'investissement. The impact of IFRS on the relationship between conservatism and investment efficiency
Comptabilité Contrôle Audit , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 101 - 124 Posted: 2014
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 42 , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,712
RANK
434,536
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies