Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Informational Effects of Tightening Oil and Gas Disclosure Rules

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2017 Last revised: 3 Aug 2018

Marc Badia

IESE Business School

Miguel Duro

IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Bjorn Jorgensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 15, 2018

Abstract

We exploit two regulatory shocks to examine the informational effects of tightening pre-existing mandatory disclosure rules. Canadian National Instrument 51-101 in 2003 and the United States rule “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting” in 2009 introduced quasi-identical amendments which effectively tightened the rules governing oil and gas reserve disclosures in both countries. We document significant changes in firms’ reporting outcomes when the new regulations are introduced. We also find that the reserve disclosures filed under the new regulations are more closely associated with stock price changes and with decreases in bid-ask spreads. Our findings are robust to controlling for other confounding factors such as time trends, other information disclosed simultaneously, financial reporting incentives, mispricing and monitoring efforts.

Keywords: disclosure rules, disclosure of oil and gas reserves, bright-line rules, off-balance sheet disclosure.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Badia, Marc and Duro, Miguel and Jørgensen, Bjørn N and Ormazabal, Gaizka, The Informational Effects of Tightening Oil and Gas Disclosure Rules (July 15, 2018). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2949896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2949896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
J Aharony , A Dotan
A comparative analysis of auditor, manager and financial Posted: 2004
M Alciatore
New evidence on SFAS No. 69 and the components of the change in reserve value
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 639 - 656 Posted: 1993
T Amer , K Hackenbrack , M Nelson
Between-auditor differences in the interpretation of probability phrases
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , p. 126 - 136 Posted: 1994
T Amer , K Hackenbrack , M Nelson
Context-dependence of auditors' interpretations of the SFAS No. 5 probability expressions
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 39 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Marc Badia , Miguel Duro , Bjørn N Jørgensen , Gaizka Ormazabal
Market-Wide Effects of Off-Balance Sheet Disclosures:
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP12152 · 63 Pages · Posted: 25 Jul 2017 · Downloads: 2
 Add To Cart  Add Paper to My Library
Hans Bonde Christensen
Broad- Versus Narrow-Sample Evidence in Disclosure Regulation Studies: A Discussion of Badia, Duro, Jorgensen, and Ormazabal (2018)
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 12 Pages · Posted: 8 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 281
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,075
RANK
364,553
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies