Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prospectus Disclosure and the Stock Market Performance of Initial Public Offerings (IPOs): The Case of Thailand

Investment Management and Financial Innovations, Volume 13, Issue 4, 2016

Posted: 19 Apr 2017

Kulabutr Komenkul

Rangsit University

Mohamed Sherif

Edinburgh Business School

Bing Xu

Heriot-Watt University

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This study examines if the prospectus disclosure of the motives for an initial public offering (IPO) explains the longrun performance of equity issuers. It uses hand-collected data for 245 IPOs from the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET), and also the Market for Alternative Investments (MAI), taken from the 12-year period between 2001 and 2012. The stock returns of the IPOs were investigated using cumulative abnormal return (CAR) and buy-and-hold abnormal return (BHAR). The authors find a significant impact for the level of use-of-proceeds disclosure on IPO underpricing, and further that the ex-ante uncertainty and signalling hypotheses explain the IPO underpricing phenomenon in the Thai IPO market. Furthermore, Thai firms citing investment needs show significant positive abnormal returns after the offering, but issuers that state general corporate purposes and debt payments motives underperform. The authors provide evidence that the offering size and bull-market conditions significantly affect both the IPO pricing and also the strategic disclosure of information in the prospectus. Our results are robust, having been subjected to a wide range of sensitivity checks.

Keywords: Prospectus Disclosure, IPO Performance, Thailand

JEL Classification: G14, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Komenkul, Kulabutr and Sherif, Mohamed and Xu, Bing, Prospectus Disclosure and the Stock Market Performance of Initial Public Offerings (IPOs): The Case of Thailand (2016). Investment Management and Financial Innovations, Volume 13, Issue 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2953435
 Not Available for Download
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,373
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies