Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Informal Institutions on the Relationship between Accounting Measures of Risk and Bank Distress

Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research, Vol. 16, No. 2, 2017

56 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2017 Last revised: 16 Jul 2018

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Jimmy Lee

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Chee Yeow Lim

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Date Written: January 1, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the effects of informal institutions (trust, religiosity and the media) on the relationship between accounting-based risk measures and bank distress. We conduct our analysis in two stages. In the first stage, we extend the prior literature by documenting a link between accounting-based risk measures and bank distress during the 2008-2009 financial crisis. In particular, given the environment characterized by rapid growth in financial innovation and complex financial transactions prior to the crisis, simple accounting-based risk measures continue to predict bank distress during this crisis period. In the second stage, we address our main research question related to the effects of selected informal institutions (societal trust, religiosity, and the media) in enhancing the predictive ability of accounting-based risk measures. As hypothesized, we find that these informal institutions enhance the predictive ability of accounting-based risk measures. Our results inform regulators that the focus on strengthening formal institutions should not ignore country-specific informal institutional structures.

Keywords: Informal institutions; Accounting-based risk measures; Trust; Religion; Media; Bank failure; Bank financial trouble; Financial crisis

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G34

Suggested Citation:

Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Lee, Jimmy and Lim, Chee Yeow and Lobo, Gerald J., Effects of Informal Institutions on the Relationship between Accounting Measures of Risk and Bank Distress (January 1, 2017). Journal of Intrernational Accounting Research, Vol. 16, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2955969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2955969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
K Ahern , D Daminielli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
G Akerlof
A theory of social custom, of which unemployment may be one consequence
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 94 , p. 749 - 775 Posted: 1980
Crossref
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,722
RANK
375,525
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies