Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relative Effects of IFRS Adoption and IFRS Convergence on Financial Statement Comparability

54 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2017 Last revised: 2 May 2017

Steve Lin

University of Memphis

William Riccardi

University at Albany - SUNY

Changjiang (John) Wang

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

One of the primary objectives of both adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and convergence between IFRS and U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) is to increase financial statement comparability. Using a unique setting in Germany, we compare the effectiveness of these two approaches in achieving this desired outcome. Our empirical tests show that both adoption and convergence lead to an increase in comparability after the new enforcement regulation in 2005. However, difference-in-differences tests show that adoption does not lead to a significant incremental increase in comparability beyond convergence. The findings of this study should be of interest to regulators and standard-setters as they assess alternative methods of aligning domestic standards with IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS Adoption; Convergence; Comparability

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Steve and Riccardi, William and Wang, Changjiang (John), Relative Effects of IFRS Adoption and IFRS Convergence on Financial Statement Comparability (2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2956076 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2956076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in U.K. Private Firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
R Ball
International financial reporting standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
14 Citations
Solomon Opare , Muhammad Nurul Houqe , Tony van Zijl
Meta-Analysis of the Impact of Adoption of IFRS on Financial Reporting Comparability, Market Liquidity, and Cost of Capital
2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference · 56 Pages · Posted: 22 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 29 May 2019 · Downloads: 386
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lyudmyla Shkulipa
Analysis of Impact of Changes in IFRSs on Convergence of Accounting Systems in World
Studia Universitatis „Vasile Goldis” Arad – Economics Series , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 75 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Solomon Opare , Muhammad Nurul Houqe , Tony van Zijl
Meta‐analysis of the Impact of Adoption of IFRS on Financial Reporting Comparability, Market Liquidity, and Cost of Capital
Abacus , volume 57 , issue 3 , p. 502 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Christelle Smith , Elmar R. Venter , Madeleine Stiglingh
Substance and Form Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Financial Statement Comparability: Evidence From South Africa
International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 51 Pages · Posted: 27 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 111
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
650
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,992
RANK
93,127
14 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies