Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asset Growth Anomaly in Europe: Do Profits and Losses Matter?

Economics Letters, vol. 156, pp. 106-109, 2017

Posted: 2 May 2017 Last revised: 10 Mar 2021

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: May 2, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the well-documented asset growth effect on stock returns exists across both profit and loss firms in European capital markets. We find that the asset growth anomaly is more pronounced across loss firms and is significantly dampened by the inclusion of profit firms in the sample. The raw and abnormal returns earned from a hedge strategy on balance sheet growth for loss firms are almost two times higher than the respective returns for profit firms. Our evidence casts doubt on a risk-based explanation, thereby lending credence to the suggestion that the asset-growth effect is attributable to mispricing.

Keywords: Asset growth, Stock returns, Profits, Losses, Europe

JEL Classification: G1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., Asset Growth Anomaly in Europe: Do Profits and Losses Matter? (May 2, 2017). Economics Letters, vol. 156, pp. 106-109, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2961678
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies