Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practices of Standard-Setting: An Analysis of the IASB's and FASB's Process of Identifying the Objective of Financial Reporting

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 50, 2016

Posted: 5 May 2017

Christoph Pelger

University of Passau; University of Innsbruck; NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

In their revised conceptual frameworks, the IASB and FASB pronounce that in their view valuation usefulness is the single objective of financial reporting. The present paper addresses the question how this decision was made by the boards and why stewardship was not identified as a separate objective. Drawing on Flyvbjerg’s work on rationality and power, the paper analyses the practices of standard-setting in the specific case of the framework revision. The qualitative empirical study is based on the material which is publicly available from the due process of the IASB and FASB and also builds on interviews with board members, staff members and constituents. This paper finds that the decision usefulness programme, developed in the US in the 1970s, was the body of knowledge which primarily shaped and limited the debates during the framework revision. While decision usefulness was taken for granted by all participants, even by those who were arguing for a separate stewardship objective, no alternative rationality or programme associated with stewardship was discussed in the standard-setting arena. The paper also shows that a “mundane” organisational structure put the staff in a crucial position to influence board debates and sheds light on how disciplinary and self-disciplinary techniques affected board members’ decision-making in the framework project.

Keywords: Conceptual framework, Decision usefulness, FASB, IASB, Power, Rationality, Standard-setting, Stewardship

Suggested Citation:

Pelger, Christoph, Practices of Standard-Setting: An Analysis of the IASB's and FASB's Process of Identifying the Objective of Financial Reporting (2016). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 50, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2963474
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,671
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies