Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IFRS Option to Reclassify Financial Assets out of Fair Value in 2008: The Roles Played by Regulatory Capital and Too-Important-To-Fail Status

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 19-18

49 Pages Posted: 9 May 2017

Peter Fiechter

University of Neuchatel - Institute of Financial Analysis

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Ken V. Peasnell

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Annelies Renders

BI Norwegian School of Business

Date Written: May 6, 2017

Abstract

Amendment of IAS 39 by the IASB in 2008 provided an option to reclassify investments from fair value to historical cost. Whereas this option was available to all firms, it was particularly relevant to banks. We predict that “too important to fail” (TITF) banks took less advantage of this option than non-TITF banks because the political protection they enjoyed insulated them from regulatory pressure. Banks that did not enjoy this protection had greater reason to make use of the option to reclassify since doing so would protect their Tier 1 capital. As predicted, findings reveal that TITF banks made less use of the reclassification option to protect their Tier 1 capital and that there is a significant moderating influence of TITF status on the incentive to reclassify investments for banks with lower regulatory capital. This finding is consistent with TITF banks placing less weight on protecting regulatory capital than non-TITF banks, and thereby retaining flexibility to sell assets. Taken together, our findings provide evidence that accounting choices made by managers are affected by the importance of their firms to the economies in which they are domiciled.

Keywords: Too Important to Fail, Fair Value Accounting, Bank Regulation, Financial Crisis

JEL Classification: G14, G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fiechter, Peter and Landsman, Wayne R. and Peasnell, Kenneth V. and Renders, Annelies, The IFRS Option to Reclassify Financial Assets out of Fair Value in 2008: The Roles Played by Regulatory Capital and Too-Important-To-Fail Status (May 6, 2017). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 19-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2964315
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Khaled Kholmy , Jürgen Ernstberger
Reclassification of Financial Instruments in the Financial Crisis – Empirical Evidence from the European Banking Sector
Pages: 35 Posted: 31 Mar 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Laeven , F Valencia
Resolution of banking crises: The good, the bad, and the ugly Posted: 2010
Crossref
W Landsman , K Peasnell , S Shakespeare
Are asset securitizations sales or loans?
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 1251 - 1272 Posted: 2008
Crossref
C ; D Leuz , P Wysocki
Earnings management and investor protection: An international comparison
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , p. 505 - 532 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,372
RANK
303,670
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies