Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of National Culture on Financial Crime: A Cross Country Analysis

Prepared for the 40th Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association, University of Valencia on May 10-12, 2017

Posted: 9 May 2017

Ahmed Yamen

American University of the Middle East (AUM); Ain Shams University

Anas Al Qudah

Yarmouk University; Abu Dhabi University

Ahmed Badawi

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

Ahmed Bani-Mustafa

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

Date Written: May 9, 2017

Abstract

Although laws, rules and regulations are existing, financial crimes is a widespread phenomenon. Panama Leaks has proved that people from all over the world are participating in money laundry and financial crimes. In this study, we have investigated the influence of national culture on financial crimes across 78 countries. Using Hofstede’s cultural framework as a basis for our hypotheses and Basel Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Index as a proxy for financial crimes. The results have shown that the financial crime increases if the country’s profile is characterized by low uncertainty avoidance, low individualism, high masculinity, and low long-term orientation. Laws, regulations and sanctions are not the only factors that can help in deterring the crime, but the government has to go through a holistic approach that includes cultural factors as well.

Keywords: Financial Crime, Hofstede's Culture Dimensions, Basel Anti-Money Laundry Index

JEL Classification: Z10

Suggested Citation:

Yamen, Ahmed and AlQudah, Anas and Badawi, Ahmed and Bani-Mustafa, Ahmed, The Impact of National Culture on Financial Crime: A Cross Country Analysis (May 9, 2017). Prepared for the 40th Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association, University of Valencia on May 10-12, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2964118 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2964118
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,344
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies