Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Changes in Default Prediction Accuracy

48 Pages Posted: 11 May 2017

Elizabeth F. Gutierrez

Universidad de Chile

Maria Vulcheva

Florida International University

Date Written: April 04, 2017

Abstract

The study tests for changes in default prediction accuracy following the country-level switch to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in 20 European Union (EU) and nonEU jurisdictions. Using a default prediction model that combines both accounting and market inputs, we find that compared to a control group of non-adopters, IFRS adopters do not benefit from the international standards in terms of default prediction accuracy. Further cross-sectional analyses of companies from adopting jurisdictions in the post-adoption period show that voluntary adopters and companies domiciled in jurisdictions with large distances between their local GAAP and IFRS have higher default prediction accuracy. Higher enforcement is associated with higher default prediction accuracy in the EU and with lower default prediction accuracy in non-EU jurisdictions. The results add to the literature on the consequences of IFRS adoption and speak to the performance of default prediction models across jurisdictions, given a change in accounting regulation.

Keywords: IFRS, Default Prediction, Incentives, Enforcement

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gutierrez, Elizabeth F. and Vulcheva, Maria, Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Changes in Default Prediction Accuracy (April 04, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2965715 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2965715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
V Agarwal , R Taffler
Comparing the performance of market-based and accountingbased bankruptcy prediction models
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 1541 - 1551 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,728
RANK
576,212
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies