Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Capital and Corporate Payout Policy

Posted: 9 May 2017 Last revised: 16 Nov 2018

Mostafa Monzur Hasan

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; Macquarie University

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Date Written: November 15, 2018

Abstract

In this paper we investigate the relationship between regional social capital and corporate payout policy. Using a large sample of US data, we find a positive relationship between regional social capital and both the likelihood and the amounts of cash dividend payouts. However, we find that social capital has no bearing on the likelihood and amounts of stock repurchases. Results from additional analyses show that the relationship between social capital and dividends is more pronounced for less geographically dispersed firms. We also find that the network component of social capital has more effect on dividends than the social norm component. Our results are robust to alternative specifications of dividends and social capital, and to the use of a two-stage least squares (2SLS) analysis to alleviate endogeneity concerns. Overall, we document that regional social capital plays an important role in influencing cash dividend payout policy.

Keywords: Social capital, payout policy

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Mostafa Monzur and Habib, Ahsan, Social Capital and Corporate Payout Policy (November 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2965499
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies