Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting in XBRL: First Evidence on Financial Statement Notes of Italian Unlisted Companies

The International Journal of Digital Accounting Research, Vol. 16, 2016, pp. 85-115

31 Pages Posted: 13 May 2017

Andrea Fradeani

Università degli Studi di Macerata

Davide Panizzolo

University of Trento

Eldi Metushi

Università degli Studi di Macerata - Department of Economics and Law

Date Written: October 2016

Abstract

The new taxonomy 2014-11-17 mandates Italian unlisted companies to codify in XBRL also the notes to the financial statements. Building on previous literature, the aim of this study is to analyze the impact of mandatory XBRL extension to the financial statements notes on financial reporting quality of the Italian unlisted companies. We focus our analysis on the taxonomy usage and the customizations made by the filers. Our data represents the very first sample of Italian financial statements filed in fully XBRL format. Despite the significant changes affecting the process of financial statement preparation, we find that Italian unlisted companies have accepted and acknowledged the potential benefits and limits of the new taxonomy. When dividing the notes section between textual blocks and tables, we find a clear preference for the filers to use textual blocks for both, standard and abbreviated financial statements. Overall, we find that filers of both financial statement types use extensively the customizations offered by the taxonomy. Moreover, for the filers of abbreviated financial statements, we show that they tend to use not only more table customizations but also tables that are proper for the standard financial statements, thus offering higher voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: XBRL, Financial Statement Notes, Voluntary Disclosure, Digital Financial Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Fradeani, Andrea and Panizzolo, Davide and Metushi, Eldi, Financial Reporting in XBRL: First Evidence on Financial Statement Notes of Italian Unlisted Companies (October 2016). The International Journal of Digital Accounting Research, Vol. 16, 2016, pp. 85-115 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2967272
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
V Arnold , J C Bedard , J R Phillips , S G Sutton
The impact of tagging qualitative financial information on investor decision making: Implications for XBRL
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 13 Posted: 2012
Crossref
F Avallone , P Ramassa , E Roncagliolo
XBRL Extension to the Financial Statement Notes: Field-based Evidence on Unlisted Companies
The International Journal of Digital Accounting Research , volume 16 , p. 61 - 84 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Bartley , Y S Al-Chen , E Taylor
Avoiding Common Errors of XBRL Implementation
Journal of Accountancy , volume 209 , issue 2 , p. 46 - 51 Posted: 2010
E Blankespoor , B P Miller , H D White
Initial evidence on the market impact of the XBRL mandate
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,308
RANK
294,906
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies