Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alternative Profitability Measures and Cross Section of Expected Stock Returns: International Evidence

37 Pages Posted: 18 May 2017 Last revised: 4 Jun 2020

Nusret Cakici

Fordham university

Sris Chatterjee

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Yi Tang

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Lin Tong

Fordham University - Finance Area

Date Written: May 16, 2017

Abstract

This paper provides an extensive international analysis of the cross-sectional return predictive power of a variety of firm-level profitability measures, calculated from different combinations of measures of earnings and scaling variables. We show that this cross-sectional predictive relation is more pronounced when profit is measured by gross profit and when profits are scaled by enterprise value or market value of equity. Our findings support the hypotheses that the predictive power of “profits-to-market price” factor is partly attributable to stock mispricing arising from systematic behavioral biases and partly to the choice of a “clean” measure of earnings.

Keywords: Profitability, enterprise value, behavioral finance, international asset pricing

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G15

Suggested Citation:

Cakici, Nusret and Chatterjee, Sris and Tang, Yi and Tong, Lin, Alternative Profitability Measures and Cross Section of Expected Stock Returns: International Evidence (May 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2969687 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2969687
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Clifford S Asness , J Tobias , Lasse H Moskowitz , Pedersen
Value and Momentum Everywhere
Journal of Finance , p. 929 - 985 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Ray Ball , Joseph Gerakos , Juhani Linnainmaa , Valeri Nikolaev
Deflating Profitability
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 225 - 248 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Ray Ball , Joseph Gerakos , Juhani Linnainmaa , Valeri Nikolaev
Accruals, cash flows, and operating profitability in the cross section of stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 28 - 45 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Nicholas Barberis , Andrei Shleifer , Robert Vishny
A Model of Investor Sentiment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 49 , p. 307 - 343 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
681
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,728
RANK
87,675
7 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies