Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of International Sustainability Reporting Guidelines within a Mandatory Framework: Lessons from South Africa

18 Pages Posted: 22 May 2017

Mumbi Wachira

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Public Finance and Fiscal Law, Students

Thomas Berndt

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Controlling & Auditing

Carlos Martinez

Independent

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: The aim of this paper is to explore the factors influencing the voluntary adoption of international sustainability and integrated reporting guidelines in addition to the regulated King III reports among publicly listed companies on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines are used as a proxy for sustainability reporting and the International Integrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) Integrated Reporting Framework is the international guidance considered for integrated reporting.

Design/methodology/approach: Hypotheses were evaluated using logistic regression analysis. Two equations were developed to predict the likelihood of firms’ subscribing to either GRI or the Integrated Reporting () Framework respectively. In addition to the independent variables related to the hypotheses, several control variables were included in both models based on findings from prior literature. We consider annual, sustainability and integrated reports issued for the financial year ended 2014.

Findings: The results show a statistically and significant positive association between the adoption of the GRI’s guidelines and the level of transparency of non-financial disclosures and environmental sensitiveness. The application of the Framework is also associated with the level of a firm’s transparency score and with its respective analyst following which acts as a measure for capital markets requiring a high information environment. Research limitations/implications: This study is largely confined to a specific context, i.e. corporations listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). However, the paper provides a basis for examining other contexts with mandated sustainability or integrated reporting traditions such as Norway, Hong Kong, Denmark etc. which could be used in further studies for cross-country comparisons. Furthermore, the findings are relevant for firms operating in Europe given the new directive by the EU parliament necessitating the inclusion of sustainability information within annual reports from 2017.

Originality/value: This study contributes to the sustainability and integrated reporting research by exploring the drivers of international reporting frameworks within a context where such practices are locally regulated. Furthermore, it provides a possible explanation for the heterogeneity of integrated reporting quality in South Africa as underscored by previous authors. The paper is also illustrative of the key differences between sustainability and integrated reporting which are ordinarily examined separately in extant research.

Keywords: Integrated reporting, Sustainability reporting, South Africa, King III Report, GRI, Framework

Suggested Citation:

Wachira, Mumbi and Berndt, Thomas and Martinez, Carlos, The Adoption of International Sustainability Reporting Guidelines within a Mandatory Framework: Lessons from South Africa (December 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2970415 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2970415
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
I Abeysekera
A template for integrated reporting
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 14 , p. 227 - 245 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Acca
Stock exchanges in sub-Saharan Africa : capturing intent towards ESG requirements Posted: 2014
Ahmed Haji , A Anifowose , M
The trend of integrated reporting practice in South Africa: ceremonial or substantive
Sustainability Accounting , volume 7 Posted: 2016
A Amran , S Ooi
Sustainability reporting: meeting stakeholder demands. Strategic Direction , volume 30 , p. 38 - 41 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,386
RANK
236,750
2 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies