Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Money Laundering Disclosures and Banks' Performance

Journal of Financial Crime, Vol. 25(1), 2017

14 Pages Posted: 19 May 2017 Last revised: 4 Jan 2018

Haitham Nobanee

Abu Dhabi University; University of Oxford; University of Liverpool

Nejla Ellili

Abu Dhabi University

Date Written: May 17, 2017

Abstract

This paper aims to develop an Anti-Money Laundering (AML) disclosure index, explore the extent of AML disclosures in the annual reports and websites by differentiating between UAE Islamic and conventional banks, and finally, examine the effect of AML disclosure on UAE bank’s performance using dynamic panel data two-steps robust system estimation. The results reveal that the AML disclosure is at a low level of all UAE banks, conventional and Islamic banks. The results also show that the degree of the AML disclosure on the websites of the banks is higher than in the annual reports. Furthermore, the conventional banks have higher levels of overall AML disclosure than the Islamic banks. The results of the dynamic panel data two- steps robust system estimation show insignificant effects of the degree of AML disclosures on banking performance of all UAE, conventional and Islamic banks.

Keywords: Anti Money Laundering, Voluntary Disclosures, Banking Performance, Islamic Banks, and Dynamic Panel Data

JEL Classification: C33, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Nobanee, Haitham and Ellili, Nejla, Anti-Money Laundering Disclosures and Banks' Performance (May 17, 2017). Journal of Financial Crime, Vol. 25(1), 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2970221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2970221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
W K Alshattarat , H Nobanee , A E Haddad , M Alhajjar
Working Capital Management, Operating Cash Flow and Corporate Performance
International Journal of Strategic Management , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 88 Posted: 2010
Anti-Drug Abuse Act Posted: 1986
Crossref
Anti-Money
Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act
Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre Posted: 2006
Anti-Money
Laundering and Suspicious Cases Unit publications Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
770
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,130
RANK
74,813
3 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies