Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Loss Carryforward Disclosure and Uncertainty

arqus Discussion Paper No. 208

48 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2017 Last revised: 13 Sep 2022

Vanessa Flagmeier

Georg-August-University of Goettingen

Jens Mueller

Paderborn University

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

This study examines firms’ voluntary disclosure of tax loss carryforward (TLCF) information. We identify a setting (conservative German accounting environment) under which the demand for TLCF disclosure is particularly pronounced and analyze firms’ TLCF disclosure behavior while controlling for overall reporting quality. We argue and find that uncertainty about the usability of TLCF is the main driver of voluntary TLCF disclosure. Value relevance tests suggest that the incremental effect of disclosure under uncertainty is positive, indicating the usefulness of firms’ voluntary disclosure. We also find that the content and type of disclosure vary systematically with the signal of uncertainty. While firms provide different kinds of complex TLCF information, investors only value very basic and less complex information. Our study provides detailed and unique insights into TLCF disclosure, documenting that managers enrich the information environment with voluntary disclosure that caters to expected investors’ needs, but the perception of the content’s usefulness is limited to simple information.

Keywords: tax loss carryforwards, disclosure, uncertainty, tax footnote, deferred taxes

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Flagmeier, Vanessa and Mueller, Jens, Tax Loss Carryforward Disclosure and Uncertainty (2022). arqus Discussion Paper No. 208 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2982321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2982321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
E Amir , J M Carabias , J Jona , G Livne
Fixed-effects. Empirical Accounting Research Posted: 2016
E Amir , T Sougiannis
Analysts' interpretation and investors' valuation of tax carryforwards
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
T J Atwood , J K Reynolds
The pricing of realized tax benefits from NOL carryforwards: Effect of income statement presentation
Journal of American Taxation Association , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2008
W M Badenhorst , P H Ferreira
The Financial Crisis and the Value-relevance of Recognised Deferred Tax Assets
Australian Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 26 , p. 291 - 300 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,442
RANK
152,349
3 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies