Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nigerian Banks and Global Ranking: The IFRS Compliance Impact

Nwoye, U.J., Abiahu Mary-Fidelis C., Obiorah, J., & Ekesiobi, C. (2017). Nigerian Banks and Global Ranking: The IFRS Compliance Impact, The Nigerian Accountant, April/June, 1 – 37.

12 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2017

Dr. Ugochukwu Nwoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy, Students

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Justina Obiorah

Federal Polytechnic Oko

Ekesiobi Chukwunonso

Anambra State University

Date Written: June 1, 2017

Abstract

The study focused on the assessment of Nigerian banks’ compliance level with the guidelines of IFRS towards determining the extent to which such compliance has contributed to improving the acceptability of the organisations’ financial reports globally. Using the content analysis research design approach, the primary and secondary data sources were employed for the successful execution of this research work. A total of 77 disclosure items obtained from the IFRS disclosures checklist were deployed for selected financial statements assessment, and the data extracted from the 2012-2014 financial reports of Zenith Bank, First City Monument Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank, Diamond Bank, Access Bank, United Bank for Africa, ECO Bank, First Bank, and Fidelity Bank — all Nigeria Banks that made the world list of top 1000 banks in 2015, were subjected to multiple regression analysis using SPSS version 22 package. The outcome of the analysis showed that the level of compliance of Nigerian banks to IFRS disclosure guidelines has indeed improved the acceptability of her financial reporting practices globally. It was also discovered that significant contributions were made by the independent variables in explaining the compliance quality level of IFRS disclosure practices upheld by the Nigerian banks. It was however recommended that further research effort be intensified into this research area towards ascertaining the ‘data quality’ level (how reliable the disclosed financial data are) of the financial statements of these nine (9) Nigerian banks, in order to maximally complement the emphasis focus of this research work — the ‘compliance quality’ of studied banks’ financial statements to IFRS disclosure requirements.

Keywords: Compliance, Financial Reporting Practices, Financial Statements, IFRS, IFRS Disclosure requirements.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nwoye, Dr. Ugochukwu and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Obiorah, Justina and Chukwunonso, Ekesiobi, Nigerian Banks and Global Ranking: The IFRS Compliance Impact (June 1, 2017). Nwoye, U.J., Abiahu Mary-Fidelis C., Obiorah, J., & Ekesiobi, C. (2017). Nigerian Banks and Global Ranking: The IFRS Compliance Impact, The Nigerian Accountant, April/June, 1 – 37., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2982328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2982328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,365
RANK
434,536
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies