Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Trend of Intellectual Capital Disclosure: Experiential Evidence from Post IFRSS Adoption in Nigeria

Proceeding - Kuala Lumpur International Business, Economics and Law Conference 10. August 27 – 28, 2016. Hotel Bangi-putrajaya, Bangi, Malaysia. ISBN: 978-967-13952-6-4

15 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017

Dr. Mutalib

Mutalib Anifowose

Hafiz Abdul Rashid

International Islamic University of Malaysia (IIUM)

Hairul Bin Annuar

International Islamic University of Malaysia (IIUM)

Date Written: August 28, 2016

Abstract

The basic purpose of this paper is to examine the trend of intellectual capital (IC) disclosures in Nigeria following the adoption of international financial reporting standards. The analysis is based on a sample of 91 listed firms on the Nigeria Stock Exchange over the three fiscal years 2012 to 2014. A self‐constructed IC disclosure checklist of 72 items was used to measure the quality of IC information disclosed in the 273 annual reports and accounts reports of the sampled firms. A number of statistical techniques were carried out to assess the trend of IC and that of its three components of human capital, relational capital, and internal capital disclosures and as well to confirm the degree of differences in the level of disclosures across the industries. The study finds a significant increase in the trend of IC and all the three components over the period of study. The relational capital is most disclosed components of the three items and that overall IC disclosure is significantly difference across the industries. The study is first to examine the quality of IC disclosure following IFRSs adoption in Nigeria. The study suggests that financial reporting council of Nigeria should provide a scientific reporting guidelines for the IC disclosures as the current practice among is not uniform.

Keywords: Intangible assets, Intellectual capital, Disclosures, IFRSs, Nigeria

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Anifowose, Mutalib and Abdul Rashid, Hafiz and Bin Annuar, Hairul, The Trend of Intellectual Capital Disclosure: Experiential Evidence from Post IFRSS Adoption in Nigeria (August 28, 2016). Proceeding - Kuala Lumpur International Business, Economics and Law Conference 10. August 27 – 28, 2016. Hotel Bangi-putrajaya, Bangi, Malaysia. ISBN: 978-967-13952-6-4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2986925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M J Abdolmohammadi
Intellectual capital disclosure and market capitalization
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 397 - 416 Posted: 2005
Crossref
I Abeysekera
Intellectual capital disclosure trends: Singapore and Sri Lanka
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 723 - 737 Posted: 2008
Crossref
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
An empirical investigation of annual reporting trends of intellectual capital in Sri Lanka
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 59 - 64 Posted: 2005
Crossref
W Aerts , D Cormier , M Magnan
The Association Between Web-Based Corporate Performance Disclosure and Financial Analyst Behaviour Under Different Governance Regimes. Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 15 , p. 184 - 209 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,261
RANK
697,815
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies