Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Forecasts: The Case for Combining Analysts' Estimates with a Cross-Sectional Model

Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2017 Last revised: 10 Jul 2020

Vitor Azevedo

Department of Financial Management - RPTU Kaiserslautern-Landau

Patrick Bielstein

Barclays PLC

Manuel Gerhart

Technische Universität München (TUM), Students

Date Written: July 17, 2017

Abstract

We propose a novel method to forecast corporate earnings, which combines the accuracy of analysts' forecasts with the unbiasedness of a cross-sectional model. We build on recent insights from the earnings forecasts literature to improve analysts' forecasts in two ways: reducing their sluggishness with respect to information in recent stock price movements and improving their long-term performance. Our model outperforms the most popular methods from the literature in terms of forecast accuracy, bias, and earnings response coefficient. Furthermore, using our estimates in the implied cost of capital calculation leads to a substantially stronger correlation with realized returns compared to earnings estimates from extant cross-sectional models.

Keywords: Earnings forecasts, analysts' forecasts, forecast evaluation, implied cost of capital, expected returns

JEL Classification: G12, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Azevedo, Vitor and Bielstein, Patrick and Gerhart, Manuel, Earnings Forecasts: The Case for Combining Analysts' Estimates with a Cross-Sectional Model (July 17, 2017). Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2988831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2988831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Reuven Lehavy
Biased Forecasts or Biased Earnings? The Role of Reported Earnings in Explaining Apparent Bias and Over/Underreaction in Analysts' Earnings Forecasts
JAE Boston Conference October 2002 Pages: 52 Posted: 6 Jan 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J S Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
Crossref
G Aharoni , B Grundy , Q Zeng
Stock returns and the Miller Modigliani valuation formula: Revisiting the Fama French analysis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 110 , issue 2 , p. 347 - 357 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
724
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,438
RANK
81,027
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies