Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extreme Uncertainty and Forward-Looking Disclosure Properties

42 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2017

Julia Krause

BMW Group

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Kamran Ahmed

La Trobe Business School, La Trobe University

Date Written: August 24, 2016

Abstract

This study investigates the effect of extreme uncertainty on disclosure behavior by analyzing the quality and quantity of forward-looking disclosures during the global financial crisis and pre-crisis periods, controlling for other determinants of disclosure behavior. Prior research has struggled to distinguish between the quality and quantity dimensions of forward-looking disclosures. Also, the impact of the recent financial crisis on these forward-looking disclosure attributes has not yet been examined systematically. We address this gap by exploiting the unique setting of German publicly traded firms. These firms must provide forward-looking information within their audited financial statements, although relevant regulation is sufficiently vague to allow great variation in the quality, scope and quantity of forward-looking disclosures actually observed. Using hand-collected data from 2005 to 2009, we provide evidence of a significantly negative association between crisis and disclosure quality. This finding is robust to several different disclosure quality proxies and regression specifications. In contrast, we find no negative significant relation between crisis and disclosure quantity; rather, there is evidence that reported volume increases during the crisis. Our results are consistent with extreme uncertainty, as occurring during times of crisis, negatively affecting the quality of voluntary disclosures, while firms maintain or increase disclosure quantity, ultimately diluting the information density of forward-looking disclosures.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, forecasts, crisis, uncertainty, forward-looking report, disclosure quality

JEL Classification: G01, G17, M41

Suggested Citation:

Krause, Julia and Sellhorn, Thorsten and Ahmed, Kamran, Extreme Uncertainty and Forward-Looking Disclosure Properties (August 24, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2991996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2991996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: a meta-analysis
British Accounting Review , issue 31 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
K Ahmed , D Nicholls
The Impact of Non-financial Company Characteristics on Mandatory Disclosure Compliance in Developing Countries: The Case of Bangladesh. The International
Journal of Accounting , issue 29 , p. 62 - 77 Posted: 1994
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
K Aljifri , K Hussainey
The determinants of forward-looking information in annual reports of UAE companies
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 22 , issue 9 , p. 881 - 894 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,651
RANK
568,179
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies