Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance Scorecard on Financial Risk Management Disclosure (IFRS 7): Evidences among Publicly-Listed Banks in the Philippines

8 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2017

Jocelyn Biolon

University of Mindanao

Sarah Mae Gambong

University of Mindanao

Virgilio Ocoy

University of Mindanao

Phix Quibal

University of Mindanao

Joel Tan

University of Mindanao

Date Written: June 25, 2017

Abstract

This paper determines the compliance rate of financial institutions listed in the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE) on the financial risk management disclosure requirement as specified under the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS 7). Specifically, it aimed to establish the relationship between the level of compliance to company characteristics as indicated by age, asset size and profitability rate. The study employed descriptive-correlation design and Cramer’s V model to achieve the objectives of the study. Through purposive sampling technique, 15 annual reports for the year 2012 of selected listed banks in the Philippines were downloaded from the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE) website. Findings of the study revealed that while financial risk management disclosure was generally high and manifested from this set of respondents, no significant relationship had been observed when the compliance level was analyzed according to profile. This suggests that company age, size and profitability cannot predict or influence adherence to IFRS 7. Further, it implies that the compliance attitude of banks towards reporting standards are driven by and can be explained by other variables or factors apart from plain demographics.

Keywords: Accounting, Financial Risk, Disclosure, Banks, IFRS 7, Philippines

Suggested Citation:

Biolon, Jocelyn and Gambong, Sarah Mae and Ocoy, Virgilio and Quibal, Phix and Tan, Joel, Compliance Scorecard on Financial Risk Management Disclosure (IFRS 7): Evidences among Publicly-Listed Banks in the Philippines (June 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2992243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2992243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Abed Al-Nasser Abdallah , Mostafa Kamal Hassan
The Effects of Corporation/Country Characteristics and the Level of Corporate Governance on Corporate Risk Disclosure: The Case of the Gulf Cooperative Council (GCC) Countries
Pages: 43 Posted: 5 May 2013 Last revised: 14 Jan 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
&amp; Aggarwal , Gort
Agency theory and application to the banking industry
American Economic Review , volume 92 Posted: 2002-10-15
Ben Kwame Agyei-Mensah
The Association between Firm-Specific Characteristics and Financial Information Disclosure Levels: A Study of Rural Banks in the Ashanti Region of Ghana
Pages: 20 Posted: 25 May 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahmed , &amp; Beatty , Bettinghus
Evidence on the efficiency of interest rate risk disclosures by commercial banks
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 39 , p. 223 - 251 Posted: 2004-07-13
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,277
RANK
325,828
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies