Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Qualitative Comparative Approach to the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Africa

53 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017

Solomon George Zori

Erasmus University

Konan Seny Kan

University of Otago ; University of Otago

Date Written: June 26, 2017

Abstract

The last two decades has witnessed an unprecedented number of countries adopting international financial reporting standards (IFRS). Studies on the reasons for their popularity and adoption by countries have leaned towards statistical approaches, which may or may not necessarily be conclusive in explaining the cross-sectional variations in the reasons countries adopt the standards especially from developing countries. Common to this inconclusive literature so far is the monocausal rationale underlying conditions (pathways) leading to the adoption of IFRS. To reconcile these conclusions this article employs Qualitative Comparative Analysis (QCA) methodology to study the adoption/non-adoption of IFRS by African countries. In contrast to work predicated on assumptions of causal homogeneity and causal competition on policy adoption, the results of the study reveals that multiple combinations of conditions lead to adoption/non-adoption of IFRS in Africa. This article contributes to the literature by suggesting greater leverage than current empirical studies in discerning the incentives facilitating or hindering African countries with regard to IFRS adoption/non-adoption.

Keywords: Africa; IFRS; Adoption; Non-Adoption; QCA; Necessity Analysis; Sufficiency Analysis; Causal Complexity; Configurational Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Zori, Solomon George and Seny Kan, Konan Anderson and Seny Kan, Konan Anderson, A Qualitative Comparative Approach to the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Africa (June 26, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2992501 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2992501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
Acca
Our History Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Posted: 2014
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D C Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K Ahmed , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A Meta-analysis of IFRS Adoption Effects
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P Andre , A Filip , L Paugam
The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 42 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,004
RANK
371,877
7 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies