Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capitalisation of R&D and the Informativeness of Stock Prices: Pre and Post IFRS Evidence

British Accounting Review, 2021, 53 (4), 100998.

54 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2017 Last revised: 2 Jun 2023

Christina Dargenidou

University of Exeter Business School - XFI Centre for Finance and Investment

Richard H.G. Jackson

University of Bath - School of Management

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Fanis Tsoligkas

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: March 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether requiring (IFRS) versus allowing (UK GAAP) conditional capitalisation of development expenditure affects the extent to which capitalisation conveys more information about future earnings, relative to expensing. We show that capitalisation results in current returns incorporating more future earnings information than expensing under UK GAAP but not under IFRS. i.e., the amount of information incorporated into market prices of capitalisers is the same as that from firms expensing R&D under IFRS. This result holds irrespective of a firm’s earnings management incentives or strength of corporate governance for the period under IFRS. We argue that this is because investors experience greater uncertainty regarding the realisation of future economic benefits associated with the development costs capitalised in the post-IFRS period. Consistent with this, we do find a positive association between capitalised R&D and future earnings variability in the post-IFRS period only, as well as short-term positive abnormal returns for capitalisers relative to expensers in the pre-IFRS period only. Overall, these findings suggest that when moving from a standard that offers an overt option to capitalise or expense, capitalisation comes with greater uncertainty, which is resolved only in the long term.

Keywords: Research and Development, IFRS Adoption, IAS 38, SSAP 13

JEL Classification: O30, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dargenidou, Christina and Jackson, Richard H.G. and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Tsoligkas, Fanis, Capitalisation of R&D and the Informativeness of Stock Prices: Pre and Post IFRS Evidence (March 1, 2021). British Accounting Review, 2021, 53 (4), 100998., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995597 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2995597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
K Ahmed , H Falk
The value relevance of management's research and development reporting choice: Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 264 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,970
RANK
153,575
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies