Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Accounting Standards on Pension Investment Decisions

73 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2017 Last revised: 2 Nov 2017

Christian Barthelme

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Paraskevi Vicky Kiosse

University of Exeter Business School

Thorsten Sellhorn

Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet (LMU) Munich; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: October 2017

Abstract

This study analyzes the ‘real’ effects of accounting standards in the context of defined benefit pension plans. Specifically, we examine IAS 19R, which increases expected pension-induced equity volatility by eliminating the so-called ‘corridor method’, a smoothing device for actuarial gains and losses. Supported by interview evidence, we show that IAS 19R leads firms to reconsider their pension investment decisions. Using matched samples of treatment and control firms, results from multivariate difference-in-differences tests indicate that firms affected by the adoption of IAS 19R significantly shift their pension assets from equities into bonds, relative to control firms. This effect is attenuated for firms with larger and better funded pension plans. Supplementary analyses suggest that this shift in pension investment is mainly due to IAS 19R’s changes in the accounting for actuarial gains and losses (the ‘OCI method’). These results are robust to several sensitivity tests, although endogeneity concerns cannot be fully ruled out. Our study informs accounting standard setters of potential shifts in firms’ real economic activities due to concerns about pension-induced equity volatility.

Keywords: Defined Benefit Plans, Pension Accounting, Pension Asset Allocation, IAS 19R

JEL Classification: G11, G30, G32, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Barthelme, Christian and Kiosse, Paraskevi Vicky and Sellhorn, Thorsten, The Impact of Accounting Standards on Pension Investment Decisions (October 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995076 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2995076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A K Agrawal
The impact of investor protection law on corporate policy and performance: Evidence from the blue sky laws
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 107 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 435 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E Amir , S Benartzi
The expected rate of return on pension funds and asset allocation as predictors of portfolio performance
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 3 Posted: 1998
E Amir , S Benartzi
Accounting recognition and the determinants of pension asset allocation
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 321 - 343 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Amir , Y Guan , D Oswald
The effect of pension accounting on corporate pension asset allocation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,321
RANK
228,448
6 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies