Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New International Tax Diplomacy

Georgetown Law Journal, Vol. 104, No. 5, 2016

61 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2017

Itai Grinberg

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

International tax avoidance by multinational corporations is now frontpage news. At its core, the issue is simple: the tax regimes of different countries allow multinational corporations to book much of their income in low-tax or no-tax jurisdictions, and many of their expenses in high-tax jurisdictions, thereby significantly reducing their tax liabilities. In a time of public austerity, citizens and legislators around the world have been more focused on the resulting erosion of the corporate income tax base than ever before. In response, in 2012, the G-20—the gathering of the leaders of the world’s twenty largest economies—launched the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project, the most extensive attempt to change international tax norms since the 1920s. In the course of the BEPS project, the field of international tax has adopted the institutional and procedural architecture for multilateral action used in international financial law. This Article is the first to ask whether that architecture will work in the international tax context. To answer that question, this Article first applies lessons from the international financial law literature to assess international tax agreements that are now being reached through soft-law instruments and procedures comparable to those that characterize international financial law. This initial analysis, which draws from the experience in international financial law, is largely pessimistic. However, this Article then describes how model tax treaty law—although also a form of soft law—is highly effective, and differentiates the political economy of international tax law from that of international financial law. As a result, a key theoretical point emerges: bifurcating analysis of multilateral efforts to change international tax norms into their Model Treaty-based and non-Model Treaty-based components is necessary in order to understand the new regime for international tax governance. At a more practical level, bifurcating the analysis highlights that observers should expect the Model Treaty-based parts of the BEPS project to be implemented, as well as most parts of the project focused on tax transparency.

By contrast, sustained international coordination in implementing other dimensions of the project is doubtful. In reaching these conclusions, the Article contributes to the broader international economic governance literature by using a high-profile example from international tax diplomacy to show how underlying legal institutions affect the prospects for implementation of international regulatory agreements.

This article replaces the draft version 'Breaking BEPS: The New International Tax Diplomacy':

http://ssrn.com/abstract=2652894.

Keywords: tax, international economic law, tax avoidance, multinational corporations, economic governance, OECD, tax treaties

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Grinberg, Itai, The New International Tax Diplomacy (June 1, 2016). Georgetown Law Journal, Vol. 104, No. 5, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Hybrid Oecd , Mismatch Arrangements
TAX POLICY AND COMPLIANCE ISSUES , volume 13 Posted: 2012
Crossref
President Barack Obama
Remarks by the President on International Tax Policy Reform Posted: 2009-05-04
Crossref
International Tax Issues Relating to Globalization: Hearing Before Comm. of Finance
Cong
But see Edward D. Kleinbard, Stateless Income, 11 FLA. TAX REV , volume 107 , p. 755 - 56 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,398
RANK
219,770
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University Law Center Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies