Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Index Manipulation Around Election Announcements: Evidence from Pakistan Stock Exchange

International Journal of Accounting and Economics Studies. 5(2). 87-91 (2017)

5 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2017

Shahbaz Khan

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, School of Finance, Students

Razzi Razzi Abbas Jafri

National Bank Of Pakistan; NBP

Nida Baig

Huazhong University of Science and Technology - College of Public Administration

Muhammad Shaique

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, School of Accounting, Students

Muhammad Usman

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, School of Finance, Students

Date Written: July 1, 2017

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to find out the impact of political general elections of Pakistan on KSE-100 index. We employed Event study methodology on closing prices of KSE-100 index over the time period January, 1998 to May, 2013. During our sample period, 3 events of political general Elections occurred i.e., Event1 in 2002, Event2 in 2008, and recently Event3 in 2013. We construct an Event window of 11 days consisting of 5 pre-event days, 1 on-event day, and 5 post-event days. Results of this study show that Events 1 and 2 put significant negative impact on stock returns, while Event3 demonstrates a significant positive impact on stock returns. This study also revealed the pre- and post-event comparison for all of the three events and, suggested that as soon as the political situation of the country changes, behavior of investors towards political general election also changes. Manipulation in stock index has always been remained an inconclusive phenomenon for investors and policy makers. So, further evidence on an individual country level might suggest fruitful guidelines to both investors and policy makers.

Keywords: Political Elections, Pakistan Stock Exchange, Stock Returns, Market Efficiency, Event Study

JEL Classification: G14, G15

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Shahbaz and Razzi Abbas Jafri, Razzi and Baig, Nida and Shaique, Muhammad and Usman, Muhammad, Stock Index Manipulation Around Election Announcements: Evidence from Pakistan Stock Exchange (July 1, 2017). International Journal of Accounting and Economics Studies. 5(2). 87-91 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
A Alesina , E Spolaore , R Wacziarg
Economic integration and political disintegration (No.w6163)
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 1997
Crossref
Election polls, free trade, and the stock market: evidence from theCanadian general election (No. w3073)
Crossref
E F Fama
The behavior of stock-market prices
The journal of Business , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 34 - 105 Posted: 1965
Crossref
W M Fong , S K Koh
The political economy of volatility dynamics in the Hong Kong stock market
Asia-Pacific financial markets , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 259 - 282 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,739
RANK
441,817
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies