Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review on the Multidimensional Analysis of Earnings Quality

35 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 19 Aug 2018

Ana Licerán-Gutiérrez

University of Jaén

Manuel Cano‐Rodríguez

University of Jaén

Date Written: July 6, 2017

Abstract

There is a generalized consensus among accounting researchers about the multidimensional nature of earnings quality: Earnings quality depends on a series of characteristics that enhance the usefulness of the earnings figure for decision making. In this paper, we undertake a literature revision on empirical research on earnings quality that reveals that, although earnings quality is probably the most recurrent topic in accounting, empirical research that have treated earnings quality as a multidimensional concept is almost inexistent. In this sense, we document that: (1) Most of the empirical papers on earnings quality deal with just one earnings characteristic, not including the potential effect of the other characteristics related to earnings quality. (2) Some characteristics (particularly, accruals quality and, in a lesser way, conservatism) are widely employed for representing earnings quality, whereas other characteristics (smoothness, persistence) are much less used by researchers. (3) The research on the relationships among the different earnings quality characteristics is scant and with mixed results. (4) Only a few papers develop multidimensional measures of earnings quality, but these measures are based on too restrictive assumptions and there is no evidence of superiority over single-property measures. We complement our bibliometric analysis by discussing the limitations of both the single-dimension approach and the multidimensional approaches used to date, illustrating our arguments with a simulation process. Finally, we conclude that the research on earnings quality can benefit from the use of more sophisticated statistical methods, particularly Structural Equation Modelling, for overcoming these issues.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Earnings Management, Earnings Smoothing, Predictability, Conditional Conservatism, Unconditional Conservatism, Structural Equation Models

Suggested Citation:

Licerán-Gutiérrez, Ana and Cano, Manuel, A Review on the Multidimensional Analysis of Earnings Quality (July 6, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2998134 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2998134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R J Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
R Ball , S P Kothari , R Ashok
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Maria Filipa Nogueira
International Financial Reporting Standards and New Directions in Earnings Management
, p. 179 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,784
RANK
377,395
1 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies