Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS 8 on Segment Disclosure Practice: Panel Evidence from Italy

International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting ISSN 2162-3082 2016, Vol. 6, No. 1

Posted: 17 Jul 2017

Manuela Lucchese

Independent

Ferdinando Di Carlo

Università degli Studi della Basilicata

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

The study examines the effectiveness of IFRS 8, effective since 2009, in relation to both the magnitude of segment disclosures and the firms' characteristics that might affect the disaggregated disclosure policies decisions, on Italian listed companies during the period 2008-2012.

The results show that on average, the new standard did not lead to relevant changes in the segment disclosures as previously stated under IAS 14R, thus demonstrating inconsistency with the expectations of the IASB. In addition, we demonstrated, by employing a fixed-effect regression, that the magnitude of segment disclosure is negatively associated with growth rate, size, profitability and ownership diffusion.

The present study contributes to the extant literature in terms of the PIR review, discussing the effectiveness of IFRS 8 some years after adoption, and not merely considering the first year, where the results may be affected by the learning curve effect in countries less familiar with Anglo-Saxon accounting.

Keywords: Segment reporting, IFRS 8, segment disclosure, management approach, PIR of IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Lucchese, Manuela and Di Carlo, Ferdinando, The Impact of IFRS 8 on Segment Disclosure Practice: Panel Evidence from Italy (2016). International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting ISSN 2162-3082 2016, Vol. 6, No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3000034
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
987
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies