Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impacts of IFRS Adoption on Financial Statement Quality for Firms Listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange

Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 2(4) 2014. 95-102

8 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 22 Jul 2017

Felizia Arni Rudiawarni

University of Surabaya (UBAYA)

Inten Rachmawati Abuda

University of Surabaya (UBAYA)

Date Written: October 13, 2014

Abstract

Objective – the objective of this research is to explain whether the adoption of IFRS in Indonesia has improved accounting information quality.

Methodology/Technique – Earnings volatility and discretionary accruals are used to test the scope of earnings management on a set of accounting standard used. The regression of share price and book value per share and net profit per share, along with the explanatory power of the model were used to test the value relevance of the accounting standards applied.

Findings – This research finds that no significant difference of earnings management’s scope after the mandatory adoption of the IFRS. Moreover, this research also finds that IFRS does not result in higher value relevance.

Novelty – This research presents evidence of IFRS convergence from an emerging market point of view, particularly in Indonesia. Focus of this research is to examine the impact of IFRS adoption to financial statement quality using multiple measurements.

Type of Paper: Empirical

Keywords: Financial statement quality; International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS); Earnings management; Earnings volatility; Value relevance

JEL Classification: F30, G15

Suggested Citation:

Rudiawarni, Felizia Arni and Abuda, Inten Rachmawati, The Impacts of IFRS Adoption on Financial Statement Quality for Firms Listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange (October 13, 2014). Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 2(4) 2014. 95-102, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3001707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
M D Akers , D E Giacomino , J L Bellovary
Earnings Management and Its implications
The CPA Journal , volume 77 , issue 8 , p. 64 - 68 Posted: 2007
J E F Almeida , A B Lopez , F M Costa , J B Toniato
Earnings Management and Industry Classification in Brazil: an Explanatory Investigation. Simpósio FUCAPE de Produção Científica Posted: 2006
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards and The Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
901
RANK
541,990
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Theory & Practice eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies