Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Implementation in Indonesia: The Preparers’ Perspectives

Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 4(1) 2016. 31-37

7 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2017 Last revised: 25 Jul 2017

Asniati Bahari

Universitas Andalas

Suhernita

Universitas Andalas

Vira Luthan

Universitas Andalas

Efa Yonnedi

Universitas Andalas

Date Written: January 12, 2016

Abstract

Objective – This study is intended to explore the factual information; cost of implementation; general impact of implementation; progress to date; operational and strategic decision taken by management; implementation and impact of individual standards; and general other related to IFRS implementation in Indonesia by comparing before and after IFRS implementation.

Methodology/Technique – Data were collected by using content analysis from annual reports of manufacturing companies listed in the Indonesian Stock Exchange and analysed by using SPSS.

Findings – Statistical analysis showed that in Indonesia, the average number of pages that reveal category of operational and strategic decision taken by management; implementation and impact of individual standard; and general other differ between before and after the implementation of IFRS, but not for factual information and general impact of information. In addition, there is a significant difference in the average of number of listed manufacturing companies report category of progress to date; operational and strategic decision taken by management; and general other between before and after the implementation of IFRS-based Financial Statements.

Novelty – Findings of this research can serve as a guideline for companies in Indonesia and other developing countries in implementing the IFRS. The findings will also contribute to the knowledge and application of Financial Accounting System and Accounting Theory.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards; Indonesian Financial Accounting Standards; IFRS implementation; and Manufacturing Companies

JEL Classification: M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bahari, Asniati and , Suhernita and Luthan, Vira and Yonnedi, Efa, A Study of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Implementation in Indonesia: The Preparers’ Perspectives (January 12, 2016). Global Journal of Business and Social Science Review, Vol. 4(1) 2016. 31-37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
N Albu , C N Albu
Strategies For And Implications Ofthe Ifrs For Smes Implementation In Emerging Economies
Comptabilités et innovations Posted: 2012
M J Ali
A Synthesis of Empirical Research on International Accounting Harmonization and Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 24 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2005
C K Balsari , S Varan
IFRS implementation and studies in Turkey. Accounting and Management Information Systems , volume 13 , p. 373 - 399 Posted: 2014
E T De George , C Ferguson , N A Spear
How Much Does IFRS Cost? IFRS Adoption and Audit Fees
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 2 , p. 429 - 462 Posted: 2013-03
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
870
RANK
584,242
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies