Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The EU Issuers’ Accounting Disclosure Regime and Investors’ Information Needs. The Essential Role of Narrative Reporting

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series No. 3003743

European Business Organization Law Review, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2017 Last revised: 6 Sep 2018

Giovanni Strampelli

Bocconi University - Department of Law; EUSFIL Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: July 15, 2017

Abstract

Within the EU investor protection framework, issuers are required to provide different investor groups with relevant information. Nevertheless, the issuers’ accounting regime seems to be inconsistent with this regulatory approach. Due to their ever increasing complexity, IAS/IFRS are not suitable to meet investors’ needs and can lead to an information overload, to which also sophisticated institutional investors are exposed. The article looks at the UK “strategic report” model and argues that the narrative component of financial reports can play a key role in rendering financial reports more informative and more suited to meeting information needs of different groups of users by diversifying information directed at sophisticated and unsophisticated investors. The article outlines the framework of a possible EU (more) harmonized framework in the area of narrative reporting, arguing that the ESMA can foster harmonization by providing guidelines on the enforcement of narrative reporting and (following the example of the Financial Reporting Council) promoting proactive activities aimed at developing guidance and recommendations on the contents and format of narrative reporting.

Keywords: Investors’ protection, IAS/IFRS, Accounting Directive, Narrative Reporting, Strategic Report, non-financial disclosure.]

JEL Classification: K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Strampelli, Giovanni, The EU Issuers’ Accounting Disclosure Regime and Investors’ Information Needs. The Essential Role of Narrative Reporting (July 15, 2017). Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series No. 3003743, European Business Organization Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3003743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3003743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
D Ahern
Turning Up the Heat? EU Sustainability Goals and the Role of Reporting under the NonFinancial Reporting Directive
Eur Comp Fin Law Rev , volume 13 , p. 599 - 630 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Amir Amel-Zadeh , Jonathan Faasse
The Information Content of 10-K Narratives: Comparing MD&A and Footnotes Disclosures
Pages: 45 Posted: 12 Jul 2016 Last revised: 1 Dec 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Armour
Principles of financial regulation Posted: 2016
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 1 - 5 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
428
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,404
RANK
155,999
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies