Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Insiders Equal? Evidence from Earnings Management in Closely Held East Asian Firms

Research in International Business and Finance

63 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2017 Last revised: 7 Mar 2023

Najah Attig

Dalhousie University; Dalhousie University

Ruiyuan (Ryan) Chen

West Virginia University

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Chuck C.Y. Kwok

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Date Written: November 1, 2018

Abstract

In analyzing newly collected data on the ultimate ownership structure of publicly traded firms in nine East Asian economies, we contribute to international accounting research by providing evidence on earnings management in insider-controlled firms in this region. We find that family-controlled firms engage in less (more) accrual-based (real) earnings management than other insider-controlled firms. Our analysis suggests that controlling families, unlike other types of ultimate owners, tend to substitute real earnings management for accrual-based earnings management. To help empirically clarify the role that two incentives (entrenchment versus signaling) play in driving the substitution between real and accruals-based earnings management, we examine their valuation impact and find that both types negatively affect the future valuation of family firms. In another set of results consistent with expectations, we document that country-level investor protection and firm external financing demand shape the practice of earnings management in family-controlled firms.

Keywords: Family Conglomerates, Earnings Management, Comparative Accounting Systems and Practice, Real Activities Manipulation, Corporate Governance, East Asia

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Attig, Najah and Chen, Ruiyuan and El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Kwok, Chuck C.Y. and Pittman, Jeffrey A., Are Insiders Equal? Evidence from Earnings Management in Closely Held East Asian Firms (November 1, 2018). Research in International Business and Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3007494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3007494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
A.-K Achleintner , N Gunther , C Kaserer , G Siciliano
Real earnings management and accrualbased earnings management in family firms
European Accounting Review , volume 23 , p. 431 - 461 Posted: 2014
A Ali , S T.-Y. Chen , Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
H Almeida , D
A theory of pyramidal ownership and family business groups
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 2637 - 2681 Posted: 2006
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,348
RANK
461,979
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies