Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) on Financial Performance: Empirical Evidence from Banks Quoted on the Nigeria Stock Exchange

Research Journal of Financial Sustainability Reporting (2016)

19 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2017 Last revised: 10 Sep 2017

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Ezechukwu Beatrice

Federal Polytechnic, Oko

Date Written: June 28, 2016

Abstract

The aim of this study is to determine the effect of adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) on the financial performance of banks in order to produce a more comparable, transparent and reliable financial statement. This study therefore, examines the effect of adoption of IFRS on the financial performance of Nigerian companies-evidence from Nigeria banking sector. The ex-post facto research design was adopted for this study. Mainly secondary data was used. Three hypotheses were formulated and tested in the course of this study. The statistical tool used to test the hypotheses was paired t-test statistic. It revealed that adoption of IFRS has significant effect on the profitability banks, and that IFRS has improved investors’ confidence in the financial statement. It was concluded that IFRS has positive impact on the reported net income and equity of banks, and on their profitability. It was recommended that government and regulatory authorities should organize more quality training to get bankers informed.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standard, Financial Performance, Profitability, Equity

JEL Classification: M23, M37, M54

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Beatrice, Ezechukwu, Effect of the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) on Financial Performance: Empirical Evidence from Banks Quoted on the Nigeria Stock Exchange (June 28, 2016). Research Journal of Financial Sustainability Reporting (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
276,301
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies