Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Firms’ Reportable Segment Profit or Loss Reconciliation

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR) Vol. 2(3) 2017, 26-31

6 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2017

Nunung Nuryani

Kwik Kian Gie School of Business

Tan Thing Heng

Universitas Multimedia Nusantara

Phan Ferah

Kwik Kian Gie School of Business

Date Written: June 23, 2017

Abstract

Objective – The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) No.8 adopted in Indonesian GAAP (Statement No. 5, 2012) requires a company to provide a reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments’ profit or loss of the firm’s profit or loss. The objective of this standard is to improve the value relevance of information in the financial statement. This study aims to investigate the value relevance of the segment reconciliation and the determinants of segment income dissimilarity, i.e. agency cost, proprietary cost, and audit quality.

Methodology/Technique – Data used in this study was a secondary data obtained from 142 manufacturing companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) for the period 2009 to 2013. Purposive sampling method yielded 59 firms. Two research models were used to test proposed hypotheses.

Findings – The results show reconciliation of total of segments’ profit or loss of the firms’ profit or loss positively affects the market value of equity; this means segments’ reconciliation disclosure has value relevance for the investment decisions. In addition, this paper provides evidence that audit quality negatively affects the segment income dissimilarity, while agency cost and proprietary cost have no effect. This is consistent with hypothesis that firms audited by the Big Four tend to avoid disclosure of dissimilarity between firms profit or loss and segment profit or loss.

Novelty – Our findings show that audit quality (Big 4 accounting firms) plays an important role in reducing dissimilarity between the sum of segment profit and firm profit (segment profit dissimilarity).

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Segment Reconciliation; Value Relevance; Agency Cost; Proprietary Cost; Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Suwarli, Nunung Nuryani and Thing Heng, Tan and Ferah, Phan, Value Relevance of Firms’ Reportable Segment Profit or Loss Reconciliation (June 23, 2017). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR) Vol. 2(3) 2017, 26-31, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008400
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M M Alfaraih , F S Alanezi
What explains variation in segment reporting?
Evidence from Kuwait. International Business and Economic Research Journal , volume 10 , issue 7 , p. 31 - 46 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E Alfonso , D Hollie , S C Yu
Managers' segment financial reporting choice: an analysis of firms' segment reconciliations
Journal of Applied Business Research , volume 28 , issue 6 , p. 1413 - 1444 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Berger , R Hann
Segment profitability and the proprietary and agency costs of disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 906 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Bestari
Determinan motif pengungkapan variabilitas pertumbuhan laba antar segmen perusahaan manufaktur yang terdaftar di bursa efek indonesia Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,113
RANK
531,414
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies