Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption on Cost of Equity Capital of Banks Quoted on Nigeria Stock Exchange

Research Journal of Financial Sustainability Reporting, July-December 2016

12 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2017 Last revised: 10 Sep 2017

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Ezechukwu Beatrice

Federal Polytechnic, Oko

Date Written: December 7, 2016

Abstract

This study was carried out to ascertain the effect of International Financial Reporting Standards adoption on cost of equity capital of Nigerian banks with a focus on fifteen (15) banks quoted on the Nigeria Stock Exchange. The study made use of secondary sources of data obtained from the annual report and accounts of the selected banks under study. The relevant data were subjected to statistical analysis with the use of ANOVA and multiple regression techniques. The results of the study revealed that there is a positive and significance relationship between IFRS adoption and cost of equity capital. It was also empirically verified that the adoption of IFRS by companies would help in investment decisions of management. The researchers recommended that financial regulatory bodies such as International Accounting Standard Board (IABS) Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN), Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE), Stock Exchange Commission (SEC) et cetera, should enact policies that would regulate the trading activities of companies in order to ensure transparency of their operations.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, Equity Capital, Earning per Share, Cost of Equity

JEL Classification: M40, M51, L15

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Beatrice, Ezechukwu, Effect of International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption on Cost of Equity Capital of Banks Quoted on Nigeria Stock Exchange (December 7, 2016). Research Journal of Financial Sustainability Reporting, July-December 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Z Abdul-Baki , A B Uthman , M Sanni
Financial ratios as performance measure: A comparison of IFRS and Nigerian GAAP
Journal of Accounting and management Information Systems , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 82 - 97 Posted: 2014
B A Agbonifoh , G O Yomere
Research Methodology in the Social Sciences and Education Posted: 1999
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
970
RANK
528,080
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies