Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Financial Disclosure and Market-Based Firm Performance: The Initiation of Financial Inclusion

Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, 13(3): 263-281

50 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2017 Last revised: 4 Jan 2021

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Amitav Saha

School of Business, The University of Notre Dame Australia

Habib Khan

University of Canberra

Shajul Islam

Stamford University Bangladesh

Date Written: August 11, 2017

Abstract

We examine the association between financial inclusion disclosure and firm performance in Bangladeshi banks from 2009 to 2014 in response to a regulatory directive on the engagement of banking firms in financial inclusion activities. We find a positive association between financial inclusion disclosure and banking firms’ subsequent performance, with this relationship moderated by market competition and government ownership. We also find evidence that firms’ engagement in financial inclusion activities increases their market share, with the disclosure of this information reducing the information asymmetry between managers and capital market participants. The broad implication of our research findings is that firms considering investing in financial inclusion activities could benefit from improved firm performance and gain market share. The research findings contribute to the larger debate on the reasons why firms should consider incorporating these initiatives into their operational activities. In addition, the findings inform various international organisations that promote financial inclusion activities.

Keywords: Financial inclusion disclosure, Banking industry, Firm performance, Emerging economy, Stakeholder theory

JEL Classification: G21, M14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Saha, Amitav and Khan, Habib and Islam, Shajul, Non-Financial Disclosure and Market-Based Firm Performance: The Initiation of Financial Inclusion (August 11, 2017). Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, 13(3): 263-281, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3017175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Understanding the relationship between founderCEOs and firm performance
J. Empir. Finan , volume 16 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2009
H E Aldrich , C M Fiol
Fools rush in? The institutional context of industry creation
Acade. Manage. Rev , volume 19 , p. 645 - 670 Posted: 1994
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
J. Account. Econ , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
F Allen , A Demirgüç-Kunt , L Klapper , M S M Peria
The foundations of financial inclusion: understanding ownership and use of formal accounts
J. Financ. Intermed , volume 27 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,572
RANK
366,348
6 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies