Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS on Investment Decisions: European Evidence during Crisis and Non Crisis Economic Conditions

68 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2017

Leonidas C. Doukakis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Konstantinos A. Kapellas

Athens University of Economics and Business

Georgia Siougle

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: February 1, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates the effect of a change in financial reporting regulation, the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), on investment decisions in Europe. It further investigates whether capital investment decisions were influenced by the adverse macroeconomic conditions that took place during the crisis period in the Eurozone in years 2008-2010. Moreover, we control for the fact that the impact of the IFRS adoption may differ depending on a) the timing of the adoption i.e. voluntary versus mandatory adopters and b) the legal enforcement and corruption levels. We provide evidence that financial reporting practices of mandatory versus voluntary adopters cause significant differences in (a) the cost of equity capital, (b) the level of capital investments and (c) the return on invested capital. Our evidence suggest that mandatory adopters improved the level of capital investments and the return on invested capital in the post IFRS period and that the cost of equity capital was reduced. These evidence are more pronounced under the strong legal enforcement environment. For the group of voluntary adopters, we verify also a significant reduction in the cost of equity capital in the post IFRS adoption period. Regarding their investment practices, we document higher level of capital investment relative to mandatory adopters in both the pre and post IFRS period and even after controlling for the legal enforcement environment. We provide evidence that during the crisis period the cost of equity capital was increased for both groups. Nevertheless, our results suggest that both groups keep their investment policy unchanged by not reducing the level of capital investments.

Keywords: Capital Investments, Cost of Equity Capital, IFRS, Voluntary versus Mandatory Adopters, Economic Crisis

JEL Classification: G15, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Doukakis, Leonidas C. and Kapellas (Capellas), Konstantinos (Constantine) A. and Siougle, Georgia, The Effect of IFRS on Investment Decisions: European Evidence during Crisis and Non Crisis Economic Conditions (February 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3020094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3020094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
International Accounting Standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Balakrishnan , Karthik , J Core , R Verdi
The Relation Between Reporting Quality and Financing and Investment: Evidence from Changes in Financing Capacity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,335
RANK
183,013
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies