Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in IFRS 3 Accounting for Business Combinations: A Feedback and Effects Analysis

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 11(1) p. 61-70, 2017

10 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2017

Walid Masadeh

The Hashemite University

Ebrahim Mansour

The Hashemite University

Wasfi AL Salamat

Hashemite University

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This research reviews the effect of IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) 3 with a focus on the changes in accounting procedures under business combinations. A content analysis research methodology was used to code and categories feedback data on the effects of IFRS as positive and negative. Results indicated that IFRS is considered successful by 71% of its users and unsuccessful by 29% of its users. IFRS success is credited to the enhancement of comparability of accounting information and streamlining of acquisition methods and goodwill under business combinations. Contrarily, IFRS is considered unsuccessful, because it is riddled with negative consequences, such as rising costs of compliance and preparation, especially in developing and less industrialized nations. We conclude that comparability of accounting information on an international scale is the most positive effect of IFRS 3, while increasing cost of compliance is the greatest negative effect of IFRS 3. We suggest that the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), and other bodies involved in setting global accounting standards should focus on finding ways to incentivize developing countries and companies to comply with the standards. We recommend further studies on ways to assist companies to reduce preparation costs resulting from IFRS changes.

Keywords: Business Combinations, Acquisition, Goodwill

JEL Classification: M16

Suggested Citation:

Masadeh, Walid and Mansour, Ebrahim and AL Salamat, Wasfi, Changes in IFRS 3 Accounting for Business Combinations: A Feedback and Effects Analysis (2017). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 11(1) p. 61-70, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3025744
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
H Al-Khadash , A Y Salah
Goodwill impairment after business combination among Jordanian shareholding companies
Journal of Accounting and Taxation , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 23 - 33 Posted: 2009
P K Boolaky
Measuring De jure Harmonisation: A Content Analysis of the Accounting Standards of three countries: South Africa, Mauritius and Tanzanian and International Financial Reporting Standards
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , p. 110 - 146 Posted: 2006
R M Daines , O Koumrian
Shareholders litigation involving mergers and acquisitions Posted: 2013
Deloitte
IFRS 3-Business Combinations Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,021
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,041
RANK
50,895
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies