Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Macroeconomic Determinants of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption: Evidence from the Middle East North Africa (MENA) Region

Revista Internacional Administracion & Finanzas, v. 9 (1) p. 39-48

10 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2017

Allan Graham

American University of Sharjah

Anup Menon Nandialath

Zayed University

Debra Skaradzinski

Zayed University

Elzotbek Rustambekov

Bryant University

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as a country’s Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) has accelerated in the last 5 years with approximately 120 sovereign governments designating IFRS as the required financial reporting framework for at least some companies in the country. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) reports that of these, about 90 countries have adopted it fully for all businesses, large and small. In an annual update, Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) lists 147 countries that have some relationship with IFRS (the U.S. is listed, for instance, as it allows foreign companies with a capital market presence to use IFRS instead of converting their results to U.S. GAAP). Yet many of the world’s 201 recognized countries have resisted fully adopting IFRS, particularly in the Middle East North Africa (MENA) region of the world. This begs the question: what are the perceived benefits of adopting IFRS at the country level?

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Middle East North Africa (MENA), Macroeconomics, Capital Flows, Disclosure

JEL Classification: M4, O53

Suggested Citation:

Graham, Allan and Nandialath, Anup Menon and Skaradzinski, Debra and Rustambekov, Elzotbek, Macroeconomic Determinants of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption: Evidence from the Middle East North Africa (MENA) Region (2017). Revista Internacional Administracion & Finanzas, v. 9 (1) p. 39-48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3025011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
The Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions Posted: 2015
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) an AICPA Backgrounder Posted: 2015
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Ridell
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
N Aspergis
The Role of IFRS in Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence from a Panel of MENA Countries
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 7 , issue 10 , p. 182 - 191 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,525
RANK
427,404
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Financial Markets Regulation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies