Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Additivity in Accounting Valuation: Theory and Applications

Forthcoming, Abacus

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2017-1227

43 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2017 Last revised: 28 Nov 2017

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Jean-Francois Casta

University Paris-Dauphine - DRM Finance

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: August 29, 2017

Abstract

This paper has three objectives: (1) To introduce a theoretical solution to the issue of non-additivity between assets in place, relying on an accounting-based valuation approach; (2) To explain how such an approach can be implemented empirically by measuring synergies between assets; (3) To present the properties of this non-additive valuation technique. We use Choquet capacities, i.e., non-additive aggregation operators, to measure the interactions between assets and apply our methodology to a sample of U.S. firms from the Capital Goods industry. To operationalize our approach we examine the relationships between synergies – captured by Choquet capacities – and the market-to-book ratio (proxying for growth options), and show how interactions between assets are consistently linked to a firm’s market-to-book ratio. We also measure firm-specific productive efficiency relative to the industry and firm size. For large firms, efficiency, as defined by our approach, is positively associated with higher future operating cash flows. For small firms, efficiency is positively associated with higher future sales growth. We document that the non-additive approach appears to be better to identify expected relationships between efficiency and future performance than a simpler approach based on the market-to-book ratio.

Keywords: Goodwill, Non-additive accounting-based valuation, Synergies, Choquet capacities, Growth options, Productive efficiency

JEL Classification: G39, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Paugam, Luc and Casta, Jean-Francois and Stolowy, Hervé, Non-Additivity in Accounting Valuation: Theory and Applications (August 29, 2017). Forthcoming, Abacus, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2017-1227, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3028779
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
J Arnold , D Eggington , L Kirkham , R Macve , K Peasnell
Goodwill and Other Intangibles: Theoretical Considerations and Policy Issues Posted: 1994
M E Barth , W H Beaver , J R M Hand , W R Landsman
Accruals, AccountingBased Valuation Models, and the Prediction of Equity Values
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 311 - 345 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Bloom
Accounting for Goodwill
Abacus , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 379 - 389 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,080
RANK
439,313
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Universite Paris-Dauphine Research Papers Series

Follow

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies