Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Currency: Accounting, Communication and Management of Risks

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-93

89 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2017 Last revised: 30 Jan 2018

Trevor S. Harris

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: January 21, 2018

Abstract

We obtain survey responses from 168 North American CFOs and interview 16 of them to understand (i) how foreign currency exposure is measured and reported inside and outside the firm; (ii) how goal setting, performance evaluation and compensation of managers reflect exchange rate impacts, (iii) what specific currency exposures firms hedge and why? To develop expected answers to these questions, we provide a series of exhibits of hypothetical transactions at, and financial reports for, the foreign subsidiary. We benchmark these theoretical insights against the survey responses and uncover several questionable managerial choices. First, although no performance measure is insulated from a currency impact, a large majority of senior managers and board members only review translated USD data, especially cash flows, that are fraught with significant measurement error. Second, companies are more likely to communicate, both inside and outside, the currency impact on net income and revenue but not on operating costs, operating cash flows and the foreign subsidiary’s balance sheet. Hence, decision makers, especially investors, will be unable to readily isolate the portion of the firm’s performance attributable to currency changes. Third, many of the current practices used to (i) set budgeted exchange rates for planning; (ii) hold local managers accountable for currency fluctuations; and (iii) manage foreign currency risk are inconsistent both with one another and with theory. We hope our work furthers the understanding of currency exposure among students, academics and practitioners.

Keywords: foreign currency, translation, transaction, reporting, performance evaluation, hedging, compensation, free cash flow, accounting standards, SFAS 1 and 8, SFAS 52, budgeting, survey

JEL Classification: M4, M52, F23, G15, G32

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Trevor S. and Rajgopal, Shivaram, Foreign Currency: Accounting, Communication and Management of Risks (January 21, 2018). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-93, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3031831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3031831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
G Allayannis , J Ihrig , J Weston
Exchange-rate hedging: financial versus operational strategies
American Economic Review , volume 91 , p. 391 - 430 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R K Aggarwal , A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
Journal of Finance , p. 1999 - 2043 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Bartov
Foreign currency exposure of multinational firms: Accounting measures and market valuation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , p. 623 - 652 Posted: 1997
Crossref
E Bartov , G Bodnar
Firm valuation, earnings expectations, and the exchange rate exposure effect
Journal of Finance , volume 49 , p. 1755 - 1785 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,735
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,236
RANK
23,221
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies