Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Succinct Survey of Disclosure Quality Measurements

38 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2017

Chi Keung Man

University of Aberdeen

Date Written: September 3, 2017

Abstract

This paper is a sequel to prior studies, regarding the most common approaches to measuring CSR quality such as Analysts’ ratings, content or textual analysis, disclosure indices, and the measurement of characteristics such as Auditing and Assurance and Proxies for information quality (e.g. Length, numbers of words, sentences, pages). However, not all of these approaches are appropriate for measuring CSR information quality because CSR disclosures typically contain less financial information and more narratives, as well as more forward-looking information covering a wider range of topics such as human relations, customer relationships and environmental protection. This section explains how three measures, namely quality proxies, disclosure index as well as assurance, which were chosen to measure CSR in this study by drawing on prior studies and conceivable conceptual frameworks. The organization structure of this section is progressive more inclusive here as follows: the section 2 mentions what type of reports being examined in this study, where and how to collect the samples; how quantity approach to measure CSR quality in this study; the section 3 describes how the disclosure indices to measure CSR quality; then, measuring CSR quality through assurance is described; The last section concludes the whole.

Keywords: Corporate social Responsibility Disclosure Context Analysis Accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Man, Chi Keung, A Succinct Survey of Disclosure Quality Measurements (September 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3031472 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3031472
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,510
RANK
454,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies