Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linkages between the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Economic Growth within CEMAC Countries

7 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2017

Professor Alain Ndedi

International Council for Family Business; YENEPAD; Saint Monica University; University of Johannesburg; University of Pretoria; Prime Light Open University

Chimene Djapou Fouthe

World Bank

Florence Nisabwe

Independent

Date Written: September 20, 2017

Abstract

In today’s business climate, financial statements disclosed by firms have huge impacts on the society. Financial statements are heavily used by shareholders, creditors, labor unions and government authorities to assess a firm’s financial position, performance and viability. Past experiences show that the reliable and accurate accounting information enables financial market participants to make more rational decisions. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) play a vital role in the preparation of financial statements. The adoption of IFRS has a huge impact on the financial statement elements; assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. International Financial Reporting Standards contribute to create a business climate that enables investors to make more rational and accurate investment decision. Epstein (2009) asserts that IFRS adoption results in higher financial reporting quality. International authorities such as World Bank, International Monetary Fund, and International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) encourage the adoption of IFRS to advance effectiveness of financial markets, which in turn may spark the economic growth of adopting countries (Wyatt and Yospe, 1993). Ball (2008) pointed out that financial reporting is one of the most important economic activities. Further, Li and Shroff (2010) declare that high-quality accounting information enables the management of a firm to make much more effective investment decisions, translating into high growth rate of economy. A major driver for International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption by countries is the desire to integrate into the global economy. Some of previous research studies show that the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has a positive impact on the economic growth. The adoption of IFRS has positive impacts on international trade and significantly enhances the comparability of financial statements prepared by firms from different countries. Samuels and Piper (1985) stated that the adoption of IFRS has a great potential to facilitate global trade activities.

The objective of this paper is to contribute the existing literature on the association between IFRS implementation and economic growth within countries. To achieve the above, a thorough literature review will be conducted with the objectives of developing effective mechanisms for IFRS implementation. In this regard, the paper argued that CEMAC government authorities and regional business organizations should make persistent efforts to enforce IFRS.

Suggested Citation:

Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Djapou Fouthe, Chimene Diane and Nisabwe, Florence, Linkages between the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Economic Growth within CEMAC Countries (September 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3039980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3039980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
P Bardhan , M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 1997
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Imf
CENTRAL AFRICAN ECONOMIC AND MONETARY COMMUNITY (CEMAC) Posted: 2016
L R De Mello
Foreign Direct Investment-Led Growth: Evidence from Time Series and Panel Data
Oxford Economic Papers , volume 51 , p. 133 - 151 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,522
RANK
697,815
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies