Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Bright Side of Fair Value Accounting: Evidence from Private Company Valuation

51 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2017 Last revised: 7 Dec 2018

Nicholas Crain

BlackRock; University of Melbourne - Department of Finance

Kelvin Law

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: December 5, 2018

Abstract

Using proprietary valuations from a large sample of international private equity managers, we examine how the use of fair value accounting improves the valuation of private companies. We find that the use of fair value accounting reduces valuation bias and increases valuation accuracy. These improvements are especially salient for the valuation of outperforming and mature private companies. Our findings provide novel evidence that fair value accounting improves the usefulness of financial reporting even in settings where valuations are subjective and unverifiable.

Keywords: Fair Value; Private Equity; Valuation; Private Company

JEL Classification: G11; G24; G32; M41

Suggested Citation:

Crain, Nicholas and Law, Kelvin, The Bright Side of Fair Value Accounting: Evidence from Private Company Valuation (December 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3040396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Anwer S Ahmed , Emre Kilic , Gerald J Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Badertscher , J Burks , P Easton
A convenient scapegoat: Fair value accounting by commercial banks during the financial crisis
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 59 - 90 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Brad M Barber , Ayako Yasuda
Interim fund performance and fundraising in private equity
Forthcoming at Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2017
Crossref
Mary E Barth
Fair value accounting: Evidence from investment securities and the market valuation of banks
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
635
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,596
RANK
95,963
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies