Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Importance of Aligning IFRS with SDGs

Posted: 26 Sep 2017

Vrajlal K. Sapovadia

Tech and Train; National Forensic Sciences University, Gandhinagar

Date Written: September 25, 2017

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are a set of international accounting standards stating how particular types of transactions and other events should be reported in financial statements. IFRSs are incomplete if crux of SDGs is not interwoven in the framing of accounting standards in the financial reporting. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the Global Goals, are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. SDGs are set goals for collective and equitable development with minimum deterioration to environment. Without IFRS, it is difficult to measure if objectives of SDGs are achieved. Reciprocally, SDGs are incomplete if end results are not gauged in financial statement which honour environmental factors. Therefore aligning IFRS with SDGs is sine qua non.

Business enterprises are established for the profit, but as they uses resources supplied by the society/State and environment and hence are responsible to contribute part of the profit to society and environment. Proper practice of Accounting Standards assumes immense importance at micro level, as effective disclosure leads to shareholders’ wealth maximisation and at macro level, they are essential to the efficient functioning of the economy because decisions about the allocation of resources/investment rely on credible, concise, transparent, comparable and understandable financial information about the corporate operations and financial position. It will not be fair accounting if hidden cost of environment is not factored in financial statement of a business entity. The accounting which factor environmental cost and benefit is known as “Green Accounting”. “Green accounting” is a type of accounting that attempts to factor environmental costs into the financial results of operations. It has been argued that gross domestic product ignores the environment and therefore policymakers need a revised model that incorporates “Green Accounting”. The “Green Accounting” is of worth if auditors take into consider environmental aspects in examining effect of accounting transaction on financial statement. This paper thus suggests building Green Matrix to determine value of environmental factors. It is imperative that broad guidelines are churned out after proper research. This paper is an attempt to lead such debate amongst professional accountants, auditors, business and policy makers.

As per OECD principles of Corporate Governance, Accounting Information should be prepared and disclosed in accordance with high quality standards of accounting and financial and non-financial disclosures. The application of high quality standards is expected to significantly improve the ability of investors to monitor the company by providing increased reliability and comparability of reporting, and improved insight into company performance. The quality of information substantially depends on the standards under which it is compiled and disclosed. The Principles support the development of high quality internationally recognised standards, which can serve to improve transparency and the comparability of financial statements and other financial reporting between countries. Such standards should be developed through open, independent, and public processes involving the private sector and other interested parties such as professional associations and independent experts. High quality domestic standards can be achieved by making them consistent with one of the internationally recognised accounting standards. In many countries, listed companies are required to use these standards. This research will lead to find space for environmental cost and benefits into financial statements and in corporate governance. OECD principles of Corporate Governance further emphasize that Board members should act on a fully informed basis, in good faith, with due diligence and care, and in the best interest of the company and the shareholders. In some countries, the board is legally required to act in the interest of the company, taking into account the interests of shareholders, employees, and the public good. Thus in emerging environment under SDGs as an axle of equitable growth, the paper will explore bridging gap in accounting standards, financial statements and corporate governance practice.

Keywords: SDGs, Accounting Standards, Corporate Governance, Green Accounting, Green Audit, Green Matrix

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Sapovadia, Vrajlal K., Importance of Aligning IFRS with SDGs (September 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3042562
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies