Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management and the Capitalization of Development Costs in Germany

35 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2017

Tom Martins

Free University of Berlin (FUB), Students

Julian Poracos

Free University of Berlin (FUB), Students

Luca Regenhardt

Free University of Berlin (FUB), Students

Date Written: July 4, 2017

Abstract

This paper focuses on how German companies apply the International Account-ing Standard 38. We investigate the utilization of R&D capitalization as a mean for managing earnings, by formulating earnings management objectives and deriving the respective exogenous variables.

We find that the capitalization of R&D costs is negatively associated with high EBITs. However, additional analysis does not provide evidence that this associ-ation can be linked to income smoothing. For the sample as a whole, we cannot provide empirical evidence for an association of R&D capitalization with a man-agement’s objective for reversing a negative income, reversing a negative change in income and meeting debt covenants. However, after dividing the sample into small and large firms our results suggest that managers of small German firms engage in earnings management through the capitalization of R&D in order to avoid negative income. Moreover, considering large German firms managers seem to influence the firm’s leverage ratio through R&D capital-ization to meet debt covenants. Additionally, our results contribute to the literature by providing the new control variable liquidity, which shows the firm's capability to finish projects that are still in the development phase. Because greater financial resources allow firms to capitalize more R&D expenditures, our findings are in line with the standard set-ter’s intention. This paper provides strong evidence by showing that a firm’s size has a significantly positive association with R&D capitalization for German firms.

Since we focus on one of the leading markets concerning the overall R&D in-vestment, our findings are relevant and can be reliably projected for German listed companies applying the international standard, IFRS.

Keywords: R&D capitalization, Development cost recognition criteria, IAS 38, Intangible Assets, US-GAAP, full expensing rule, Earnings Management, Managerial Discretion, Management Incentives, Germany, German market, Empirical Analysis, Performance Indicators, Income Smoothing, Debt covenants

Suggested Citation:

Martins, Tom and Poracos, Julian and Regenhardt, Luca, Earnings Management and the Capitalization of Development Costs in Germany (July 4, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3042552 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3042552
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
W Baber , B Fairfield , J Haggard
The Effect of Concern About Reported Income on Discretionary Spending Decisions: The Case of Research and Development
The Accounting Review , p. 818 - 829 Posted: 1991
B J Bushee
The influence of institutional investors on myopic R&D investment behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 333 Posted: 1998
P M Dechow , R G Sloan
Executive incentives and the horizon problem: An empirical investigation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 51 - 89 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,662
RANK
434,536
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies