Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Look at Accounting and Business Matters in Belgium, Brazil and Vietnam

Internal Auditing, 29(2) (March-April, 2014): 33-38

17 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2017

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Heather Anderson

Murray State University

Nhi Le

Murray State University

Casey Reineking

Murray State University

Abstract

The activities of internal auditors, management accountants, and other business professionals are increasingly affected by the globalization of business. Internal auditors and management accountants have to understand accounting and business developments in places where their companies carry out operations. In the U.S., financial reporting is based on U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but in other countries, other accounting standards apply. This article examines developments in Belgium, Brazil and Vietnam, representing the continents of Europe, South America, and Asia. A summary of accounting and business matters is presented, along with a brief history of each country. This information will be meaningful to internal auditors, management accountants, and others involved in business in these areas.

Keywords: international accounting, IFRS, Vietnam, Belgium, Brazil

JEL Classification: F1, F3

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Murphy and Anderson, Heather and Le, Nhi and Reineking, Casey, A Look at Accounting and Business Matters in Belgium, Brazil and Vietnam. Internal Auditing, 29(2) (March-April, 2014): 33-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
L M Smith
The Battle of Waterloo: Basic Information , volume 13 Posted: 2013-11
Acca
The Audit and Accountancy Profession in Belgium
Acca Posted: 2013-03-08
Europa
Posted: 2011-03-15
Crossref
Pricewaterhousecoopers
Comparing Belgian GAAP and IFRS. PriceWaterhouseCoopers Posted: 2013-03-11
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,315
RANK
772,528
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies