Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Cross-Border Cooperation on Enforcement and Earnings Attributes

64 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2017 Last revised: 10 Mar 2018

Roger Silvers

University of Utah; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 4, 2017

Abstract

The events of Sept. 11, 2001, prompted sweeping cross-border coordination efforts for securities regulators around the globe. After 9/11, the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) forged an arrangement—the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding Concerning Consultation and Cooperation and the Exchange of Information (MMOU)—that standardizes the protocol for information sharing among participating securities regulators. I link this arrangement to the ability of the SEC to pursue U.S.-listed foreign firms by showing that the probability of enforcement increases by a factor of two or more in firms whose home countries enlist in the MMOU. A much more limited effect on enforcement is observed for similar but bilateral information-sharing agreements, indicating that a broader network creates powerful incentives that are difficult to replicate bilaterally. Because different countries enter the MMOU at different times, their enlistments create a set of staggered shocks to the SEC’s enforcement capacity for U.S.-listed foreign firms. These shocks are associated with predictable improvements in U.S. GAAP-reconciled earnings properties; this helps resolve questions about why the earnings quality of U.S.-listed foreign firms diverged from U.S. firms during pre-MMOU periods.

Note: The Securities and Exchange Commission, as a matter of policy, disclaims responsibility for any private publication or statement by any of its employees. The views expressed herein are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Commission or of the author’s colleagues on the staff of the Commission.

Keywords: Information Sharing, Regulatory Coordination, Enforcement, SEC, Cross-List, Bonding

JEL Classification: K22, G38, F22, F23, F59, M48

Suggested Citation:

Silvers, Roger, The Effects of Cross-Border Cooperation on Enforcement and Earnings Attributes (October 4, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3047913 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3047913
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
F B Friedman , E Jacobs , I V Macel , S C
Taking stock of information sharing in securities enforcement matters
Journal of Financial Crime , volume 10 , p. 37 - 53 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C Frost , J Kinney
Disclosure choices of foreign registrants in the United States
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 67 - 84 Posted: 1996
Crossref
C Frost , G Pownall
Accounting disclosure practices in the United States and the United Kingdom
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 1 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S Gadinis
Three Pathways to Global Standards: Private, Regulator, and Ministry Networks
The American Journal of International Law , volume 109 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 57 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Erik S. Boyle , Melissa Fay Lewis-Western
The Value-Add of an Audit in a Post-SOX World
60 Pages · Posted: 11 Mar 2016 · Last revised: 5 May 2018 · Downloads: 515
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Roger Silvers
The Influence of Cross-Border Cooperation on Equity Market Liquidity
59 Pages · Posted: 21 Nov 2017 · Last revised: 5 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 210
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,331
RANK
291,291
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies