Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting in Europe: Prospects for Research

27 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2017 Last revised: 9 Jan 2018

Pauline Weetman

University of Edinburgh

Date Written: October 4, 2017

Abstract

This paper is a commentary on the future of financial reporting in Europe and on how research into accounting issues can be relevant to policy makers. Combining scholarship in accounting with scholarship in management can offer insight into national and global issues where accounting communicates information that affects managerial decisions at the microeconomic level and political decisions at the macroeconomic level. The paper cites examples of recent research in financial reporting and points to the current work plans of leading policy makers to illustrate the potential for researchers to influence policy directions. The context of financial reporting, nationally and globally, and the data available in the public domain, provide continued opportunities for researchers investigating accounting issues in the private sector and the public sector.

Keywords: Accounting in Europe, Accounting Standards, Financial Reporting, IFRS, Private Sector Accounting, Public Sector Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Weetman, Pauline, Financial Reporting in Europe: Prospects for Research (October 4, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3053828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3053828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Accountancy Europe
The Future of Corporate Reporting -creating the dynamics for change Posted: 2015
Accountancy Europe
Core & More: An opportunity for smarter corporate reporting Posted: 2017
Accountancy Europe
Call for action: Enhance the coordination of non-financial information initiatives and frameworks Posted: 2017
C Agyenim-Boateng , A Stafford , P Stapleton
The role of structure in manipulating
PPP accountability. Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 119 - 144 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,083
RANK
368,259
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies