Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Cultural Dimension on the Internal Audit Function - A Worldwide Comparison of Internal Audit Characteristics

25 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2017 Last revised: 19 Oct 2017

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Date Written: October 15, 2017

Abstract

Using a multinational sample of companies from different industries together with the five cultural dimensions of Hofstede (2001) as proxies for national culture, we analyze how cultural differences across countries affect the organization and work of internal audit functions (IAF). We use a unique research focus and a multinational dataset that examine the influence of national culture on IAFs in multiple dimensions. We cover all five Hofstede’s cultural dimensions to obtain a holistic view on the effects of national culture and directly link them, to relevant proxies, which describe the structure and work of the IAF. Our dataset is based on the so-called "Common body of knowledge" - study from the IIA, representing 166 different countries and 3,323 Chief Audit Executives (CAE) responses from a broad industry and size range. Our results indicate a positive association between the cultural dimensions, long-term orientation and uncertainty avoidance, and an objective and independent IAF. In contrast, individualisms does not seem to be supportive for an objective and independent IAF. We contribute to the existing literature with our exploratory study in several ways. First of all, we use a completely new research approach and dimension of IAF research. Second, our study shows that different cultural dimensions have significant effects on specific IAF characteristics. With the operationalization of IIA’s ten Core Principles, we try to find a comprehensible way to measure typical factors of an effective work and structure of the IAF. Our results should open new research streams on the internationalization and effects of culture on the IAF.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Auditing, National Cultures, Hofstede

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S., The Effects of Cultural Dimension on the Internal Audit Function - A Worldwide Comparison of Internal Audit Characteristics (October 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3053619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3053619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
When the pcaob talks, who listens? evidence from stakeholder reaction to gaap-deficient pcaob inspection reports of small auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Abdolmohammadi
Chief audit executives' assessment of internal auditors' performance attributes by professional rank and cultural cluster
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Abdolmohammadi , G Sarens
An investigation of the association between cultural dimensions and variations in perceived use of and compliance with internal auditing standards in 19 countries
Internatinal Journal of Auditing , volume 46 , p. 365 - 389 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
509
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,292
RANK
126,921
5 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies