Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Inversion Regulation Invalidated in Federal Court

Tax Notes, October 2017

4 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2017

Elizabeth Chorvat

University of Notre Dame Mendoza College of Business

Date Written: October 16, 2017

Abstract

Under the Supreme Court’s Mayo decision, legislative and interpretive regulations are accorded Chevron deference if they comply with the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) notice and comment requirements. In Chamber of Commerce on September 29, the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas extended the rule to temporary regulations, invalidating reg. section 1.7874-8T, the so-called multiple acquisition rule, for failure to comply with the notice and comment procedures under the APA. Reg. section 1.7874-8T was issued as part of the 2016 temporary regulations designed to limit the U.S. tax benefits following an inversion. Persuaded by the fact that section 7805(e) does not expressly exempt temporary regulations from the APA’s notice and comment requirement, the district court held that the temporary nature of the regulation did not excuse Treasury from the notice and comment procedures required by the APA.

Suggested Citation:

Chorvat, Elizabeth, Anti-Inversion Regulation Invalidated in Federal Court (October 16, 2017). Tax Notes, October 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3054213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Id
B) of the APA exempts agencies from the requirement where "notice and public procedure thereon are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest
82 Notre Dame L. Rev , volume 1727 , issue 3 , p. 1759 - 1773 Posted: 2007
Hickman
supra note 12, at 494-496 (discussing the government's brief in United States v
and its reliance on section 7805(e) as "granting the Treasury Department authority to issue temporary regulations Posted: 2012
Mayo
, volume 562
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,762
RANK
614,410
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies