Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Measurement of Reporting Quality: A Review of Methodologies

International Business and Accounting Research Journal, Volume 1, Issue 2, August 2017, 103-108

6 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2017

Aminu Abdullahi

Usmanu Danfodiyo University

Musa Abubakar

Usmanu Danfodiyo University (UDUSOK)

Date Written: August 8, 2017

Abstract

This paper conceptually review the various models employed by previous studies in the measurement of reporting quality following the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) around the world. In the review, attention is paid to the nature, appropriateness and limitations of each of the models identified. It was found that, the methodologies used in studying the relationship and impact of IFRS on reporting quality are classified into qualitative, quantitative and firm-specific attributes models on one hand, and direct and indirect models on the other hand. Finally, the study calls on researchers to be wary, by selecting appropriate method that commensurates with the objectives of their studies, and their ability to adequately mitigate the limitation of the model highlighted in the review.

Keywords: IFRS Adoption; Reporting Quality Measurement; Review of Methodologies

Suggested Citation:

Abdullahi, Aminu and Abubakar, Musa, Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Measurement of Reporting Quality: A Review of Methodologies (August 8, 2017). International Business and Accounting Research Journal, Volume 1, Issue 2, August 2017, 103-108, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3061058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
K Agyei-Mensah , Ben
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in Ghana and quality of financial reporting disclosures
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting. Macrothink Institute , issue 2 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A S Ahmed , Michael Nell , Dechun Wang
Does manadatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards improve accounting quality: Preliminary evidence
Social Science Reseach Network , p. 1 - 46 Posted: 2013-06-01
Crossref
T S Aurelia
Reflections on the possibility of using statistical analysis science and innovation in the republic of moldova
International Business and Accounting Research Journal , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 17 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M E Barth , R Landsman , Lang Wayne , H Mark
International accounting quality
Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 1976-08-13
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,019
RANK
284,192
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Monetary Economics: International Financial Flows, Financial Crises, Regulation & Supervision eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies