Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Analysis of Proposed PCAOB Standards: Finding a Path Forward

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 32, No. 2, 2018

Posted: 6 Nov 2017 Last revised: 3 Aug 2018

Christine J. Nolder

Suffolk University

Zoe-Vonna Palmrose

University of Southern California

Date Written: October 31, 2017

Abstract

The pace of standard-setting by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) has been glacial, which increases the risk that U.S. auditing standards are not keeping up with the global audit environment. Legislation enacted in 2012 that created the need to conduct economic analysis of proposed PCAOB standards added important considerations. If appropriately integrated into the process, these considerations can improve PCAOB standard-setting. We describe the PCAOB’s current approach to economic analysis and offer recommendations to improve the coherence, usefulness, and relevance of the evidence sought to justify the need for standard-setting.

Our recommendations involve a tailored approach that:

(1) differentiates among types of PCAOB standards based on considering their overarching purpose and target audience;

(2) recognizes appropriate theories that are unique to each type of standard – whether economic or other theories; and

(3) develops audit-centric core principles focused on audit quality on which to ground the discussion of each proposed standard.

We hope our commentary shifts thinking about the approach to economic analysis to improve PCAOB standard-setting, stimulates academic discussion of these and other important issues facing the standard-setting process in the U.S., and inspires relevant research that informs PCAOB standard-setting.

Keywords: PCAOB, Economic Analysis, Auditing Standards

Suggested Citation:

Nolder, Christine J. and Palmrose, Zoe-Vonna, Economic Analysis of Proposed PCAOB Standards: Finding a Path Forward (October 31, 2017). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 32, No. 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062775
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
890
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies