Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Analyst Stock Recommendation Revisions More Informative in the Post-IFRS Period?

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2017

Andreas Charitou

University of Cyprus

Irene Karamanou

University of Cyprus - Department of Public and Business Administration

Anastasia Kopita

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Date Written: July 31, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the mandatory IFRS adoption has affected the informativeness of analyst recommendation revisions in Europe. Although prior studies document that IFRS adoption improved analyst forecast attributes, the impact of IFRS can’t be completely assessed without examining how the market reacts to information-rich events in an environment with enhanced disclosure. To examine this question we utilize a difference-in-differences design using as main control sample firms that had voluntarily adopted IFRS before the EU’s mandated switch. Overall, our evidence suggests that after the mandatory adoption of IFRS both analyst upgrades and downgrades are more informative. These results hold after controlling for a number of variables that capture analyst, firm and information environment characteristics and are robust to a number of sensitivity analyses including the use of a US control sample. Finally, we examine whether our results are sensitive to the level of accounting enforcement. We find that analyst downgrades are more informative in the post-IFRS period for firms in both high and low enforcement environments. Analyst upgrades, however, are more informative only if they are issued for firms in high enforcement countries.

Keywords: IFRS, recommendations, enforcement, financial analysts, informativeness

Suggested Citation:

Charitou, Andreas and Karamanou, Irene and Kopita, Anastasia, Are Analyst Stock Recommendation Revisions More Informative in the Post-IFRS Period? (July 31, 2017). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
C Park , E Stice
Analyst Forecasting Ability and Stock Price Reaction to Forecast Revisions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 5 , p. 259 - 272 Posted: 2000
J Preiato , P Brown , A Tarca
A Comparison of Between-Country Measures of Legal Setting and Enforcement of Accounting Standards
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 42 , p. 1 - 50 Posted: 2015
Crossref
on the application of international accounting standards Posted: 2002-07-19
Crossref
N S Soderstrom , K J Sun
IFRS Adoption and Accounting Quality: A Review , volume 16 , p. 675 - 702 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
653,956
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies