Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants and Valuation Effects of Classification Choice on the Statement of Cash Flows

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2017

Andreas Charitou

University of Cyprus

Irene Karamanou

University of Cyprus - Department of Public and Business Administration

Anastasia Kopita

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Date Written: September 29, 2017

Abstract

In this paper we exploit the choice allowed by IFRS regarding the presentation of interest payments on the cash flow statement to answer two related questions: First, whether the classification choice is explained by firm reporting incentives and second, whether it is value relevant. Using a UK sample, we find that firms reporting losses, with a greater proportion of their debt stemming from public sources, with CFO-based covenants and greater increases in leverage in the year of adoption are less likely to report interest payments in cash flows from operating activities (CFOA). Results also suggest that the incentive to meet or beat analyst CFO forecasts decreases, but strong corporate governance increases the probability of including interest payments in CFOA. Based on the assumption that the decision not to classify interest payments in CFOA captures lower disclosure quality or poor future expected performance, we posit that these firms should also exhibit lower valuations. Results obtained after correcting for self-selection bias confirm this assertion. We conclude that managers’ decision not to classify interest payments in CFOA is consistent with the opportunistic use of the choice allowed by IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS, Cash flow statement, classification choice, firm reporting incentives

Suggested Citation:

Charitou, Andreas and Karamanou, Irene and Kopita, Anastasia, The Determinants and Valuation Effects of Classification Choice on the Statement of Cash Flows (September 29, 2017). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3062555
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The Effects of Corporate Governance on Firms' Credit Ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Do Earnings Reported Under IFRS Tell Us More About Future Earnings and Cash Flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,467
RANK
461,979
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies