Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Analysis of IFRS-Compliant Reports

9 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2017

Sergey Krylov

Ural Federal University - Graduate School of Economics and Management

Date Written: November 2, 2017

Abstract

As the modern world economy is becoming increasingly globalized, its development requires the utilization of well-trialled management instruments that are familiar to all market participants It is fair to say that today International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are the most important globalization tool in the field of accounting and financial reporting. Preparing financial statements under IFRS make them more "transparent" and suitable for analysis by potential foreign lenders and investors who can provide the company with the capital it needs for further development. This adds to the already strong scientific and practical interest in improving the conceptual and methodological framework of analysis of financial statements prepared under IFRS. The improvements should increase the information value of the analysis results that gives a more accurate idea of the company's financial performance and financial standing, thus enabling interested users of analytical financial information (potential lenders and investors in the first place) to make management decisions. To solve the above problem, the author systematizes international and Russian practices and propose an original conceptual approach to analyzing financial statements prepared under IFRS that considerably improves the results of such analysis as regards the financial performance and financial position of companies. The approach proposes breaking down the analysis procedure into four consecutive stages: preparatory stage, interpretation, calculations and analysis, and forecasting.

Keywords: analysis, financial reporting, IFRS

JEL Classification: G30, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Krylov, Sergey, Improving Analysis of IFRS-Compliant Reports (November 2, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3063946 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3063946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
D Alexander , A Britton , A Jorissen , M Hoogendoorn , C Van Mourik
Posted: 2014
International Financial Reporting and Analysis
Crossref
O V Efimova , M V Melnik
Analiz Finansovoi Otchyotnosti Posted: 2013
N N Ilysheva , S I Krylov
Analiz Finansovoi Otchyotnosti Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,284
RANK
668,003
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies