Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules: Evidence on Cyprus

Accounting in Europe, 2017

14 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2017

Irene Karamanou

University of Cyprus - Department of Public and Business Administration

Anastasia Kopita

University of Warwick - Warwick Business School

Lina Lemessiou

University of Cyprus

Date Written: January 30, 2017

Abstract

The case of Cyprus with respect to the adoption of IFRS is unique given the country’s strong reliance on international business and accounting-related services. As such, Cyprus has required the use of IFRS since 1981 not only for publicly-listed firms but also for private companies regardless of their size. Cyprus’ reluctance to fully transpose Directive 2013/34/EU into national law can’t be unrelated to its long-standing requirement of financial statements that are not only prepared under IFRS but are also audited for all types of corporations registered in the Republic. We conclude that transposing the new Accounting Directive in its entirety into national law could have adverse effects on the Government tax revenue, the GDP of the services sector and the credibility of Cyprus as an international business and financial services center.

Keywords: IFRS; Cyprus; European Union, Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU

Suggested Citation:

Karamanou, Irene and Kopita, Anastasia and Lemessiou, Lina, The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules: Evidence on Cyprus (January 30, 2017). Accounting in Europe, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3064947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
P Aristotelous , E Kollatou
Cyprus scores high in unprecedented audit on the national application of anti-money laundering legislation
Accountancy Cyprus , volume 112 , p. 84 - 85 Posted: 2013
on the application of international accounting standards and the Fourth Council Directive 78/660/EEC of 25 July 1978 and the Seventh Council Directive 83/349/EEC of 13 June 1983 on accounting
Supplementary peer review report Posted: 2002-07-19
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,352
RANK
826,938
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies