Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Relationship between the Quality of Accrual Items in the Search for the Bank Debt of the Companies Admitted to the Tehran Stock Exchange

18 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2017

Mahmood Hemetfar

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Borujerd Branch

Navab Kiamehr

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Borujerd Branch

Shaho Heidari Gandoman

Department of Accounting, Sanandaj Branch, Islamic Azad University, Sanandaj, Iran; Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 5, 2017

Abstract

This research tries to study the relationship between the quality of accrual items in the search for the bank debt of the companies admitted to the Tehran Stock Exchange. The results of this research indicate that higher quality of accruals, is related to the higher bank loan due to the total assets. Since the quality of accounting information can be considered as a reverse indicator of asymmetric information, this finding is consistent with the financial literature which has shown that the use of bank loan in private loan markets is partially designated through asymmetry of information.

Keywords: Accruals, Financing, Cash flow, financial leverage

JEL Classification: C33, E44, E58, F47, G01

Suggested Citation:

Hemetfar, Mahmood and Kiamehr, Navab and Heidari Gandoman, Shaho and Heidari Gandoman, Shaho, Investigating the Relationship between the Quality of Accrual Items in the Search for the Bank Debt of the Companies Admitted to the Tehran Stock Exchange (November 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3065528 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3065528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M Bradley , G Jarrell , H Kim
On the Existence of an Optimal Capital Structure: Theory and Evidence
Journal of Finance , volume 3 , p. 857 - 878 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Balag Dharan
Accruals Management with Financing and Investing Transactions Posted: 2003-10-06
Jennifer ; Francis , Lafond , Ryan; Olsson , M Per , Katherine Schipper
Costs of Equity and Earnings Attributes
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 967 - 1010 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Jennifer Jones
Earnings Management During Import Relief Investigation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 228 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,295
RANK
687,646
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies