Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Walk-Down to Beatable Forecasts: International Evidence

53 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2017

Hongping Tan

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Jiangfeng Wang

Shanxi University of Finance and Economics

Michael Welker

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Zhang Ran

Peking University

Date Written: November 14, 2017

Abstract

We use the framework developed in Richardson et al. (2004) to identify country, firm and analyst characteristics that we expect to be associated with the prevalence of the analyst walk-down forecast pattern. Based on a large sample of 50,649 analysts covering 33,645 firms from 46 countries during 1992-2014, we find that the walk-down pattern positively correlates with country characteristics related to insider trading restrictions and equity sales. It also positively relates to the stock market reward for beating analyst forecasts, firm-level characteristics underlying management concerns with share prices after earnings announcements, and analysts’ incentives to cooperate with management. The effects of these factors on the walk-down pattern are more pronounced in countries with better media-coverage institutions. Overall, these findings suggest that capital market incentives affecting the communication between managers and analysts and the resulting analyst forecast bias involves various forces including a country’s institutional infrastructure, and firm and analyst characteristics.

Keywords: Analyst forecasts, Walk-down, Earnings guidance, Institutional infrastructure, Insider trading, Forecast bias

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G24

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Hongping and Wang, Jiangfeng and Welker, Michael and Ran, Zhang, The Walk-Down to Beatable Forecasts: International Evidence (November 14, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3071419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3071419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
J Affleck-Graves , L R Davis , R R Mendenhall
Forecasts of earnings per share: possible sources of analyst superiority and bias
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 501 - 517 Posted: 1990
Crossref
James S. Ang , Stephen J. Ciccone
International Differences in Analyst Forecast Properties
Pages: 57 Posted: 2 Jul 2001
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K H Bae , M Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,136
RANK
370,049
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies