Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value versus Amortized Cost Measurement and the Timeliness of Other-than-Temporary Impairments: Evidence from the Insurance Industry

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-109

52 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2017 Last revised: 22 Feb 2019

Urooj Khan

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Stephen G. Ryan

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Abhishek Varma

Illinois State University - Department of Finance, Insurance and Law

Date Written: December 14, 2018

Abstract

We investigate the impact of recurring fair value versus amortized cost measurement for accounting recognition purposes on the timeliness of insurers’ other-than-temporary (OTT) impairments of non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (NAMBS) around the 2007–2009 financial crisis. Unlike largely predetermined amortized cost measurement, recurring fair value measurement requires firms to invest in information and control systems to assess relevant economic conditions and estimate fair values quarterly. We expect these systems discipline insurers’ OTT impairments. Exploiting statutory requirements that PC (life) insurers measure securities with NAIC designations from 3 to 5 at fair value (amortized cost) and disclose security-level accounting information, we predict and find that PC insurers record timelier OTT impairments of the same NAMBS with NAIC designations of 3 to 5 than life insurers. We predict and find weaker evidence of spillover effects to the timeliness of OTT impairments of the same NAMBS with NAIC designations of 1 or 2.

Keywords: Fair value accounting, amortized cost accounting, other-than-temporary impairment, financial crisis, insurance industry, residential mortgage-backed securities

JEL Classification: G01, G20, G22, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Urooj and Ryan, Stephen G. and Varma, Abhishek, Fair Value versus Amortized Cost Measurement and the Timeliness of Other-than-Temporary Impairments: Evidence from the Insurance Industry (December 14, 2018). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 17-109, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3074825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3074825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Ahmed , E Kilic , G Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Bank , England
Financial Stability Report , volume 23 Posted: 2008-04
M Barth
Measurement in financial reporting: The need for concepts
Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 331 - 52 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Beatty , S Liao
Do delays in expected loss recognition affect banks' willingness to lend?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,478
RANK
163,928
13 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies