Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Surrogate Measures of Operating Cash Flows and Accruals: Problems and Solutions

58 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2017 Last revised: 21 Mar 2022

Ciao-Wei Chen

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Sam Melessa

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Richard Mergenthaler

Penn State University

Heejin Ohn

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

We examine the implications of measurement error in surrogate measures of operating cash flows. We decompose the measurement error into two components—the inclusion error and the non-articulation error. We find that the measurement error is large in magnitude and primarily driven by the improper inclusion of accruals in surrogate cash flow measures (i.e., the inclusion error). Furthermore, we find the non-articulation error has little effect on the inclusion error. We demonstrate that the measurement error in surrogate cash flow measures produces biased coefficients and incorrect inferences in common research settings. We also provide a simple correction that eliminates the inclusion error and show that the correction reduces biases and improves inferences. Importantly, our decomposition and correction can be used by future researchers to identify, understand, and take steps to mitigate the measurement error and the resulting biases that are introduced when using surrogate measures of operating cash flows.

Keywords: Balance Sheet Method, Surrogate Cash Flow Measures, Surrogate Accruals Measures

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ciao-Wei and Melessa, Sam and Mergenthaler, Richard Dean and Ohn, Heejin, Surrogate Measures of Operating Cash Flows and Accruals: Problems and Solutions (April 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3075461 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3075461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
P Bahnson , P Miller , B Budge
Nonarticulation in cash flow statements and implications for education, research and practice
Accounting Horizons , volume 10 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1996
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,043
RANK
146,822
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies