Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Political Economy of International Standard Setting in Financial Reporting: How the United States Led the Adoption of IFRS Across the World

37 Northwestern Journal of International Law and Business 459 (2017)

48 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2017 Last revised: 29 Aug 2023

Zehra G. Kavame Eroglu

Deakin University, Geelong, Australia - Deakin Law School

Date Written: September 12, 2017

Abstract

Historically, every country had its own accounting standards, each merging to some extent with its local corporate, labor, and tax laws. No matter how undesirable, it was natural to expect differences among nations. Globalization made these differences so impractical that from corporate leaders to accountants to government officials, many pushed for harmonized accounting standards.

Pursuing this goal, a private international organization was created to set standards for the world. Currently around 120 countries require or permit International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), however, the United States is yet to make a decision to adopt these international standards.

The adoption of IFRS in the United States would, in theory, be easier compared to the experience of the European Union. The EU mandated that all publicly traded firms use IFRS in their consolidated financial statements from 2005 onwards. Several issues are yet to be resolved, but Europe managed to achieve what was once thought to be an insuperable task in coordinating a common standard for its Member States.

If the adoption of IFRS in the United States would be easier than the EU experience, why has the United States not adopted IFRS? With this paper, I argue that IFRS are a set of U.S. supported Anglo-American accounting standards. Further, that the reason for creating IFRS was not necessarily for the United States to adopt them but to convert the patchwork of accounting standards around the world into a single system that is similar to U.S. GAAP.

Keywords: IFRS, law & accounting, standard setting, international financial reporting standards

JEL Classification: K2, K22, K33, L2, L3, L5, F15,F23, F38, F6, H41, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kavame Eroglu, Zehra G., The Political Economy of International Standard Setting in Financial Reporting: How the United States Led the Adoption of IFRS Across the World (September 12, 2017). 37 Northwestern Journal of International Law and Business 459 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3079256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3079256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
Maystadt , Should , Standards , More &quot;european
, volume 5 Posted: 2013
E G See , David Zaring
Informal Procedure, Hard and Soft
International Administration, 5 CHI. J. INT'L L , volume 547 Posted: 2005
Fasb Facts About , Fasb Org
Posted: 2016-12-19
Crossref
U K Knowledge Guide To , Icaew Standards , Com
Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,021
RANK
371,877
1 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies