Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revenue Recognition: A Brave New World

Stevens Institute of Technology School of Business Research Paper

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 18-007

53 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2017 Last revised: 10 May 2018

Elizabeth A. Gordon

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Elaine Henry

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Hsiao-Tang Hsu

Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi

Date Written: May 9, 2018

Abstract

We examine the market reaction to the discussions and deliberations during the period 1998 to 2015 surrounding the new revenue recognition standard issued simultaneously by the FASB and IASB. We find that market reactions to events leading to the joint standard differ for US GAAP and IFRS firms. The reaction is a net negative reaction for US GAAP reporters but a net positive reaction for IFRS reporters. US GAAP (IFRS) firms in high litigation industries experience negative (less positive) market reactions to those in low risk industries. In certain high-impact industries in the U.S. including medical equipment and telecommunications, the market reaction is positive suggesting benefits in these industries. Further, the results for the most visible and significant events are consistent with those based on the full set of events. The evidence suggests that the new revenue recognition standard imposes net costs to the U.S. firms, except in those industries expected to benefit the most, while it provides net benefits to IFRS reporters.

Keywords: IFRS, US GAAP, Revenue Recognition, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: D78, F02, M16, M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Gordon, Elizabeth A. and Henry, Elaine and Hsu, Hsiao-Tang, Revenue Recognition: A Brave New World (May 9, 2018). Stevens Institute of Technology School of Business Research Paper, Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 18-007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3088041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3088041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Beatty , S Chamberlain , J Magliolo
An empirical analysis of the economic implications of fair value accounting for investment securities
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 43 - 77 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
713
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,245
RANK
82,662
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies