Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Expected Rate of Credit Losses on Banks' Loan Portfolios

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 18-6

Posted: 20 Dec 2017

Trevor S. Harris

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Urooj Khan

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Doron Nissim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 18, 2017

Abstract

Estimating expected credit losses on banks’ portfolios is difficult. The issue has become of increasing interest to academics and regulators with the FASB and IASB issuing new regulations for loan impairment. We develop a measure of the one-year-ahead expected rate of credit losses (ExpectedRCL) that combines various measures of credit risk disclosed by banks. It uses cross-sectional analyses to obtain coefficients for estimating each period’s measure of expected credit losses. ExpectedRCL substantially outperforms net charge-offs in predicting one-year-ahead realized credit losses and reflects nearly all the credit loss-related information in the charge-offs. ExpectedRCL also contains incremental information about one-year-ahead realized credit losses relative to the allowance and provision for loan losses and the fair value of loans. It is a better predictor of the provision for loan losses than analyst provision forecasts and is incrementally useful beyond other credit risk metrics in predicting bank failure up to one year ahead.

Keywords: Banks; Credit Loss; Loans; Loan Loss Provisions; Bank Failure; Analyst Forecast; Standard Setting

JEL Classification: G14; G21; M41

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Trevor S. and Khan, Urooj and Nissim, Doron, The Expected Rate of Credit Losses on Banks' Loan Portfolios (December 18, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 18-6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3090133
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,713
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies