Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Impairment: The Effects of Public Enforcement and Monitoring by Institutional Investors

Forthcoming: The Accounting Review

63 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2017

Martin Glaum

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Sven Wyrwa

International School of Management ISM (Frankfurt)

Date Written: December 23, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates the determinants of goodwill impairment decisions by firms applying IFRS based on a comprehensive sample of stock-listed firms from 21 countries. Multivariate logistical regression findings indicate that goodwill impairment incidence is negatively associated with economic performance, but also related to proxies for managerial and firm-level incentives. In addition, whereas goodwill impairment tends to be timely for firms in high enforcement countries, firms in low enforcement countries tend to be less responsive to declines in the economic value of goodwill; CEO compensation concerns affect the impairment decision for firms in low enforcement; and CEO reputation concerns and management preference for smooth earnings influence goodwill impairment decisions in high as well as low enforcement countries. We also find that private monitoring through institutional investors substitute for public enforcement in the context of goodwill impairment when a country’s enforcement regime is relatively weak.

Keywords: IFRS, Goodwill, Impairment Testing, Timeliness, Enforcement, Managerial Discretion, Institutional Investors

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, K2, K42, G3, G34

Suggested Citation:

Glaum, Martin and Landsman, Wayne R. and Wyrwa, Sven, Goodwill Impairment: The Effects of Public Enforcement and Monitoring by Institutional Investors (December 23, 2017). Forthcoming: The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3092658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,627
RANK
27,117
41 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies