Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IFRS Adoption Reform Through the Lens of Neo-Institutionalism: The Case of the Russian Federation

The International Journal of Accounting, 51 (3): 345-362 (2016)

48 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2018

No Name

Minnesota State University

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

The study examines the impact of IFRS adoption and concurrent regulatory reforms on the reporting quality of Russian public firms. Unlike much of prior literature focusing on the economic and legal explanations to the IFRS adoption, we build on the neo-institutional theory of DiMaggio and Powell (1983, 1991). We show that changes in reporting quality, as measured by value relevance of information and the degree of conditional conservatism, are a function of the type of the isomorphic pressure within a country. We find that firms that experienced coercive, mimetic and normative societal pressures - those that both adopted IFRS and were affected by other regulatory reforms - experienced significant improvements in reporting quality. We do not find such evidence for firms that experienced only coercive pressure - those that were affected by changes in regulations but were exempt from the IFRS reporting requirement. Overall, the study sheds light on complexity of the interplay between external pressures and a wide array of internal pressures on public firms to adopt IFRS. Notably, the study’s unique research settings also allow us to achieve a better identification strategy, compared to prior IFRS studies that attempted to disentangle the IFRS adoption and regulations/enforcement effects. Our findings indicate that the incremental “IFRS adoption” effect on reporting quality was significantly positive, whereas the individual “regulations” effect was non-detectable.

Keywords: IFRS, reporting quality, Russian stock market, neo-institutionalism, isomorphism

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Name, No, The IFRS Adoption Reform Through the Lens of Neo-Institutionalism: The Case of the Russian Federation (2016). The International Journal of Accounting, 51 (3): 345-362 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3096013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , K A Wong , A Wu
The information environment of China's A and B shares: can we make sense of the numbers?
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 467 - 489 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve reporting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K Ahmed , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A meta-analysis of IFRS adoption effects
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
Crossref
F Alali , P Foote
The value-relevance of International Financial Reporting Standards: empirical evidence in an emerging market
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 108 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,143
RANK
677,757
1 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies