Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing Sustainability Reporting: Evidence from Turkey

28 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2018 Last revised: 14 Jan 2018

Merve Kılıç

Independent

Cemil Kuzey

Murray State University - College of Business

Date Written: December 13, 2017

Abstract

Sustainability reporting has become a mainstream practice for companies around the world in recent years. Companies release sustainability reports to provide information on non-financial aspects of their performance, in addition to financial aspects. The purpose of this research is to investigate the sustainability reporting practices of Turkish non-financial companies listed on Borsa Istanbul (BIST) during the years 2004 to 2015. This paper also aims to examine the factors that influenced the decisions to publish sustainability reports. The findings of the research indicate that a growing number of companies publish stand-alone sustainability reports, ranging from 1 report in 2004 to 27 reports in 2015. This finding implies that companies in Turkey are becoming increasingly aware of sustainability reporting. However, the percentage of companies which did not produce a separate sustainability is still relatively high. The results also indicated that the most common framework for sustainability reporting is the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The findings revealed that listing on the Corporate Governance Index (CGI), having a sustainability committee, the type of industry, the size of the company and profitability are significant determinants of stand-alone sustainability reporting, whereas leverage is not. This research contributes to the literature by investigating the sustainability reporting practices of companies using longitudinal data from Turkey. This study also adds to the literature by examining the factors impacting sustainability reporting.

Keywords: Sustainability reporting, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), corporate governance, sustainability, Turkey

JEL Classification: G34, M14, M40,

Suggested Citation:

Kılıç, Merve and Kuzey, Cemil, Factors Influencing Sustainability Reporting: Evidence from Turkey (December 13, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3098812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3098812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
M Akhtaruddin , M A Hossain , M Hossain , L Yao
Corporate governance and voluntary disclosure in corporate annual reports of Malaysian listed firms
Journal of Applied Management Accounting Research , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2009
M Aksu , A Kosedag
Transparency and disclosure scores and their determinants in the Istanbul Stock Exchange
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 277 - 296 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Al Farooque , O Ahulu , H
Determinants of social and economic reportings: evidence from Australia, the UK and South African multinational enterprises
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 200 Posted: 2017
Crossref
W Ali , J G Frynas , Z Mahmood
Determinants of corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure in developed and developing countries: a literature review
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 273 - 294 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Adel M. Sarea
Global Approaches to Sustainability Through Learning and Education
, p. 262 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Hajaina Ravoaja
Reconceptualization of Sustainability Using the Medical Wheel and Maslow's Pyramid
Journal of Management Studies and Development , volume 3 , issue 02 , p. 120 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Abhishek Kajal , Siddharth Bansal
Analysing impact of corporate attributes on sustainability disclosures through India’s new BRSR framework
International Journal of Law and Management , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 282 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Nidžara Osmanagić Bedenik , Petra Barišić
Sustainable Management Practices
Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,622
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,720
RANK
25,841
6 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies