Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Continuous Disclosure in Australia and the United States: A Comparative Analysis

27 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2018

Stephen J. Brown

New York University - Stern School of Business

Chander Shekhar

University of Melbourne; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: August 2016

Abstract

Firms in US and Australia operate in rich disclosure environment with one significant difference – in Australia firms’ continuous disclosure obligation is mandated by law. Given that overall both countries operate in rich disclosure environment, we study the market response to earnings announcements by publicly listed firms in the two countries. Our results suggest that earning announcements by US firms convey some new information to the market as evidenced by significant announcement returns. Australian firms do not experience similar reactions, a result which is consistent with the notion that under the continuous disclosure environment the markets are, on average, almost fully informed of all materially relevant information at the time of the announcement.

Keywords: Continuous Disclosure, Earnings Announcements, Event Study

JEL Classification: G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Stephen J. and Shekhar, Chander, Continuous Disclosure in Australia and the United States: A Comparative Analysis (August 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3098665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3098665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,277
RANK
192,800
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies