Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Longitudinal Analysis of Financial Instruments Disclosure in an Emerging Capital Market: The Case of Qatar

International Journal of Accounting and Finance Volume 8 Issue 1 PP. 60- 79

27 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2018 Last revised: 4 Oct 2018

Yasean Tahat

Gulf University for Science and Technology (GUST)

Ghassan Mardini

Qatar University

Ayman E. Haddad

American University of Kuwait

Date Written: January 9, 2018

Abstract

This study explores the extent of financial instruments (FI) information that is supplied by Qatari listed companies under International Accounting Standards (IAS) 30, IAS 32 and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 7 for the period between 2005 and 2012. The study adopts the unweighted disclosure approach to measure the extent of FI-related information provided by a sample of 282 Qatari firm observations between 2005 and 2012. The results of the study indicate that the implementation of IFRS 7 statistically improved FI-related information. Specifically, the quantity of FI disclosure rose from 24% in 2005 (under IAS 30/32) to greater than 28% in 2007 (under IFRS 7) and this rise was sustained, reaching 47% in 2012. Also, the results of the study reveal that the level of FI disclosure varies among companies by year, category of information and industry type. The current paper provides a great insight into the accounting profession and is of interest to both national (Qatari) and international accounting regulators regarding the implications of applying IFRS 7 in an emerging capital market.

Keywords: Financial Instrument Disclosure; Qatar; Financial Reporting; International Financial Reporting Standards; IFRS

JEL Classification: M041

Suggested Citation:

Tahat, Yasean and Mardini, Ghassan and Haddad, Ayman E., A Longitudinal Analysis of Financial Instruments Disclosure in an Emerging Capital Market: The Case of Qatar (January 9, 2018). International Journal of Accounting and Finance Volume 8 Issue 1 PP. 60- 79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3098834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,401
RANK
799,009
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies