Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption on the Quality of Financial Statements of Banks in Nigeria.

19 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2018

Adewale Adegoke Alawiye-Adams

Afe Babalola University Ado-Ekiti

Ibukun-Falayi Owoola Rekiat

Federal Polytechnic Ado-Ekiti - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 10, 2018

Abstract

The financial statements of banks are depended upon by a large number of stakeholders. The quality of such financial statements is of paramount importance, especially in the advent of globalization. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) were developed to ensure not only uniform standard but good quality of financial reporting. In Nigeria, doubts have been raised on financial statements of banks in the last decade to the extent that some of these banks failed. This study sets out to examine the impact of IFRSs on the quality of financial statements of banks in Nigeria with emphasis on the comparability, relevancy and clarity of objectives of Nigerian banks. A case study approach was used to arrive at conclusion drawn from the study. This involves a survey of both internal and external stakeholders using a questionnaire. Data obtained were analysed using the Chi-Square technique. Results show that there is a significant relationship between IFRS adoption and the comparability objectives of Nigerian banks as X2-calculated of 14.96 is greater than the X2-critical/table value of 5.99 at 0.05 LOS. It was further discovered that IFRS adoption has a substantial influenced on the relevancy quality as X2-calculated of 14.0 is greater than the X2-critical/table value of 5.99 at 0.05 LOS. It was also found that IFRS adoption has significantly influence the clarity objectives of Nigerian banks as X2-calculated of 25.4 is greater than the X2-critical/table value of 5.99 at 0.05 LOS. It was concluded that IFRS adoption has significant impact on quality of financial statements of banks in Nigeria. It is recommended that the adoption of IFRS in preparation and disclosure of financial statement should be enforced. Auditors should declare if the accounts comply with the requirements of the standards.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standard, Financial Reporting, Comparability, Accounting Quality, Financial Statements of Banks

Suggested Citation:

Alawiye-Adams, Adewale Adegoke and Ibukun-Falayi, Owoola Rekiat, The Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Adoption on the Quality of Financial Statements of Banks in Nigeria. (January 10, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3099851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3099851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M Abata
The impact of IFRS adoption on financial reporting practice in the Posted: 2015
O A Akinyemi
The impacts of international financial reporting standard adoption on financial statements
URN: NBN: fi: amk-201204255019 on Monday April , volume 29 Posted: 2012
C Armstrong , M Earth , A Jagolizer , E Riedi
Market reaction to the IFRS adoption in Europe
Journal of International Business Studies. 3. Assessed , volume 20 Posted: 2007
Crossref
O O Atu , O G Atu , Atu
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Ball, R Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,943
RANK
3,939
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies