Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Fair Value Earnings to Assess Firm Value

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 18-7

26 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2018 Last revised: 24 Apr 2018

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Date Written: April 1, 2018

Abstract

Whether fair value accounting should be used in financial reporting has been the subject of debate for many years. A key dimension to this debate is whether fair value earnings can provide information to financial statement users that is helpful in making their economic decisions. A criticism of fair value accounting is the contention that fair value earnings simply reflects “shocks” to value, and thus cannot be used to assess firm value. We show how fair value earnings can be disaggregated into components that can be used to assess firm value, as well as components that provide information about various types to shocks to value, e.g., effects of changes in expected cash flows.

Keywords: Fair Value, Fair Value Earnings, Firm Value, IASB, FASB

JEL Classification: M41, G12

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E. and Landsman, Wayne R., Using Fair Value Earnings to Assess Firm Value (April 1, 2018). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 18-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3103842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3103842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Do Firms Understate Stock Option-based Compensation Expense Disclosed Under SFAS 123?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , p. 429 - 461 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: A Reexamination of Capital Management, Earnings Management and Signaling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M E Barth
Measurement in Financial Reporting: The Need for Concepts
Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , p. 331 - 352 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman
Fundamental Issues Related to Using Fair Value Accounting for Financial Reporting
Accounting Horizons , volume 9 , p. 97 - 107 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
854
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,615
RANK
65,189
5 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies