Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Detailed Accounting Standards Sufficient to Ensure Compliance? Evidence from Non-U.S. Firms Adopting Us Gaap

47 Pages Posted: 24 May 2002

Mark T Bradshaw

Boston College

Gregory S. Miller

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: May 1, 2002

Abstract

One of the underlying questions in the international accounting harmonization debate is whether harmonization of accounting standards will result in comparable application of the standards. We contribute to this debate by investigating the accounting compliance of a group of non-US firms that have voluntarily adopted U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Our results suggest that these firms adopted US GAAP based on its perceived ability to facilitate communication with external stakeholders. However, we find that many of the accounting method choices used by these firms do not comply with US GAAP. We compare this level of compliance to a matched sample of US firms and to a matched sample of non-US firms that continue to report under their domestic GAAP. The compliance of our primary sample is lower than that of US firms but higher than that of non-US firms reporting under their domestic GAAP. Time-series tests indicate that the level of compliance increases in the first year a firm adopts US GAAP. Thus, even with a set of firms that self-select a set of detailed accounting standards, adherence to the standards is low. This presents a challenge to the hope that a single set of harmonized accounting standards will be complied with consistently in a diverse global environment.

Keywords: accounting choice, accounting standards, international accounting, international financial reporting, US GAAP

JEL Classification: F00, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bradshaw, Mark T and Miller, Gregory S., Are Detailed Accounting Standards Sufficient to Ensure Compliance? Evidence from Non-U.S. Firms Adopting Us Gaap (May 1, 2002). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=310421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.310421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 182 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
Why accounting standards matter: an examination of IAS versus U.S.-GAAP accounting variables Posted: 1999
Pincus Ashbaugh
International Accounting Standards, Diversity in Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings Posted: 1999
Load more
5 Citations
David C. Burgstahler , Luzi Hail , Christian Leuz
The Importance of Reporting Incentives: Earnings Management in European Private and Public Firms
49 Pages · Posted: 8 Jan 2004 · Downloads: 5,571
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christian Leuz
IAS Versus U.S. GAAP: Information Asymmetry–Based Evidence from Germany's New Market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 445 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Christian Leuz
IAS versus US GAAP: Information Asymmetry-Based Evidence from Germany's New Market
43 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2001 · Downloads: 3,655
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
CHRISTIAN LEUZ
IAS Versus U.S. GAAP: Information Asymmetry–Based Evidence from Germany's New Market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 445 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,767
RANK
45,651
5 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies