Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions, Parent Company Statements, and International Financial Reporting Standards

25 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2018

Joseph C. S. Hsu

Independent Scholar

Date Written: January 22, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines the research of related party transactions should adopt parent company statements or consolidated statements, and also investigates whether related party transactions in the pre-IFRS period (2010-2012) differs from the post-IFRS period (2013-2015). The sample, consisting of Taiwan listed companies, contains parent company statements and consolidated statements covering the period from 2010 to 2015. The results suggest that the related party transactions of parent company statements are significantly larger than those of consolidated statements, and the results also indicate no significant difference between the related party transactions before and after IFRS adoption. The inferences are robust to different sample specifications, to different statistical tests, and to different measures of variables. Taiwan offers a unique setting for the study of related party transactions and parent company statements. This paper provides theory and evidence suggesting that the research of related party transactions should adopt parent company statements which can see a more comprehensive disclosure. The pioneering argument of this paper makes a significant contribution to Taiwan and accounting literature.

Keywords: Transaction cost economics, Parent company statements, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Joseph C. S., Related Party Transactions, Parent Company Statements, and International Financial Reporting Standards (January 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3107397 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3107397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,779
RANK
508,508
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies