Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Loan Loss Provisions, Risk-Taking and Bank Intangibles

Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting, 9(1): 21-39

34 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2018 Last revised: 28 May 2019

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This article investigates the relationship between discretionary loan loss provisions and bank intangibles among African banks. Prior studies examine how intangible assets affect firms’ profitability and valuation decisions with almost no focus on the role of loan loss provisions. We investigate whether banks increase (decrease) loan loss provisions in response to risks associated with investment in intangible assets. We find that discretionary loan loss provisions are inversely associated with bank intangible assets and change in intangible assets, but the inverse association is weakened in environments with strong investor protection. We also observe that income smoothing is reduced among banks that have large intangible asset investment, while income smoothing is pronounced among banks that have few intangible asset investments, but this behaviour is reduced for banks in environments with strong minority shareholders right protection.

Keywords: Banks, Income Smoothing, Financial Institutions, Financial Reporting, Intangible Assets, Loan Loss Provisions, Signalling, Bank Valuation, Bank Risk-Taking, Africa

JEL Classification: G21, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Bank Loan Loss Provisions, Risk-Taking and Bank Intangibles (2019). Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting, 9(1): 21-39, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3108341
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,809
RANK
481,321
3 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies