Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Perception of the Role of Accounting in a Transition Economy: The Case of Russia

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation Vol. 14, No. 4, 2018

25 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2018 Last revised: 9 Oct 2018

Galina Preobragenskaya

Abu Dhabi University - Department of Accounting

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Iliya Komarev

affiliation not provided to SSRN; Montpellier Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2018

Abstract

This paper explores the perceived role of accounting in Russia, a country transitioning from a post-socialist to a market economy. A survey was conducted to examine the public views on (1) the main functions of accounting, (2) the primary role of users of financial statements, (3) the level of demand for financial information, (4) the perceived financial statements’ reliability, and (5) the importance of reliable financial information. Our results show that the Russian accounting system can be classified as macro-user oriented. Although accounting is perceived to serve chiefly management needs, the main purposes of financial reporting are perceived to be tax calculation and compliance with government reporting requirements, and the primary users of financial statements are supposed to be business owners and government. The public feels that financial statements lack reliability, and companies manage earnings downwards. The study identifies potential reasons for misreporting. The financial reporting reliability is perceived to have greater impact on the country’s economy than on the person.

Keywords: financial reporting, Russia, transition economy, opinion survey, performance evaluation, people perceptions, society, accounting

JEL Classification: M4, P3

Suggested Citation:

Preobragenskaya, Galina G. and McGee, Robert W. and Komarev, Iliya and Komarev, Iliya, Public Perception of the Role of Accounting in a Transition Economy: The Case of Russia (January 1, 2018). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation Vol. 14, No. 4, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3111630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3111630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
O Ageeva
Implementation of International Accounting Standards in Russia
Buhuchet in stroitelnyh organizatziyah , issue 8 , p. 12 - 24 Posted: 2011
A Badaeva
An Examination of the Effect of International Investors on Accounting Information Quality in Russia
Advances in Accounting , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 444 - 454 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Bagaeva , J.-P , H , S
Can investors rely on the quality of earnings figures published by listed and non-listed Russian firms?
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 49 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Bailey
Accounting in transition in the transitional economy
European Accounting Review , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 595 - 623 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,913
RANK
636,031
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Institutions & Transition Economics: Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies