Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise of US-Listed VIEs from China: Balancing State Control and Access to Foreign Capital

Darden Business School Working Paper No. 3119912

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 19-17

56 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2018

Justin Hopkins

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Jianxin (Donny) Zhao

Emory University

Date Written: February 7, 2018

Abstract

We investigate Chinese firms’ use of variable interest entities (VIEs) to evade Chinese regulation on foreign ownership and list in the US. VIEs are explicitly designed to circumvent the intent of Chinese law on foreign control, and potentially exacerbate agency conflicts within the firm. We find that the use of VIEs is widespread and growing, and estimate that it is associated with valuation discounts of as much as 30% relative to Chinese non-VIE firms listed in the US. The discount varies predictably with events that change the risk of government intervention and managerial malfeasance, and is tempered by better oversight (large auditor and institutional investment) and lower regulatory risk (politically connected directors and high media visibility). To protect shareholders, VIE firms are more likely to have these characteristics as well as to curry government favor by contributing to disaster relief and hiring excess employees.

Keywords: Corporate governance, investor protection, variable interest entities, market regulation

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Hopkins, Justin and Lang, Mark H. and Zhao, Jianxin (Donny), The Rise of US-Listed VIEs from China: Balancing State Control and Access to Foreign Capital (February 7, 2018). Darden Business School Working Paper No. 3119912, Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 19-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3119912 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3119912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Aubin
Investor risk lurks in legal structure of China IPOs-lawyers Posted: 2013-06-23
D Barboza
Alibaba buying South China Morning Post, Aiming to Influence Media. The New York Times Posted: 2011
R Beatty , H Lu , W Luo
The Market for "Lemons": A Study of Quality Uncertainty and The Market for Chinese Firms Listed in the US Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
588
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,831
RANK
105,927
5 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden School of Business Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies