Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Quality and Market Values of Indonesian Listed Firms

39 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2018

Yanthi Hutagaol

BINUS BUSINESS SCHOOL; Binus Business School

Aljosa Valentincic

University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Dezie Warganegara

Bina Nusantara University

Date Written: February 15, 2018

Abstract

We find that earnings quality (EQ) is reliably negatively correlated with market values of equity of firms listed on Jakarta Stock Exchange (IDX). The financial reporting process produces earnings viewed as increasingly “incomplete” for valuation purposes by the capital market despite moves towards high-quality financial reporting standards (IFRS) during the sample period 1995-2015. Time-series analyses reveal that EQ is decreasing rather than increasing through time. The role of earnings in valuation is replaced by other attributes, most notably net dividends. Firms that pay out dividends are valued significantly higher, and firms that issue equity are valued lower. These results are robust regardless of other accounting, market and governance controls. Large and closely-held firms are valued higher than smaller firms, consistent with some aspects of the political cost hypothesis. Shares with higher idiosyncratic risk are valued higher, consistent with option value, as are shares where the volume of shares traded is more volatile. Collectively, the results indicate that the mere adoption of high-quality accounting standards (IFRS) and other nominal changes in capital market regulations do not automatically increase the quality of the financial reporting process.

Keywords: Earnings quality, capital markets, dividends, accounting standards, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, G32, G35

Suggested Citation:

Hutagaol, Yanthi and Hutagaol, Yanthi and Valentincic, Aljosa and Warganegara, Dezie, Earnings Quality and Market Values of Indonesian Listed Firms (February 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3128486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3128486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,416
RANK
324,400
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies