Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS Convergence on Earnings Quality: Empirical Evidence From Indonesia

Acc. Fin. Review 2 (4) 21 – 31 (2017)

11 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2018

Paulina Sutrisno

Trisakti School of Management

Indra Arifin Djashan

Trisakti School of Management; Trisakti School of Management

Date Written: December 9, 2017

Abstract

Objective –The purpose of this research is to examine the impact of the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) convergence in Indonesia on earnings quality.

Methodology/Technique – Earnings quality is measured on both accrual earnings management and real earnings management. Indonesia began convergence IFRS in 2012. IFRS is considered capable of improving comparability, transparency, and earnings information, which is expected to ultimately improve earnings quality. The sample in this research uses manufacturing firms listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange that were suspected to avoid loss during the observation period. The data consist of 45 companies examined between 2008 and 2015.

Results –This study uses statistical methods and multiple regression linear to analyse the data. The research results show that IFRS convergence in Indonesia has had a negative impact on accrual earnings management and no impact on real earnings management.

Novelty –The evidence shows that IFRS convergence in Indonesia has the ability to improve earnings quality related to a decrease in accrual earnings management but not real earnings management.

Type of Paper: Empirical

Keywords: IFRS, Discretionary Accrual, Abnormal Cash Flow Operation, Abnormal Production, Abnormal Discretionary Expenditure

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Sutrisno, Paulina and Arifin Djashan, Indra and Arifin Djashan, Indra, The Effect of IFRS Convergence on Earnings Quality: Empirical Evidence From Indonesia (December 9, 2017). Acc. Fin. Review 2 (4) 21 – 31 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3129309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,357
RANK
411,653
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies