Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expected Stock Returns Worldwide: A Log-Linear Present-Value Approach

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 18-079

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2018 Last revised: 20 Feb 2021

Akash Chattopadhyay

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Matthew R. Lyle

Goizueta Business School

Charles C. Y. Wang

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: January 21, 2021

Abstract

This study provides the first large-scale study of the performance of expected-return proxies (ERPs) internationally. Analyst-forecast-based ICCs are sparsely populated and not robustly associated with future returns. Earnings-model-forecast-based ICCs are well-populated, but are unreliable outside the U.S. We adapt and extend the log-linear and present-value (LPV) framework—combining an accounting valuation anchor, its expected growth, and market prices—for estimating ERPs internationally, and implement a correction for the use of stale accounting data. An LPV ERP anchored on the book value of equity is positively associated with future returns in 26 of 29 equity markets, and largely subsumes the predictive ability of a broad set of firm characteristics previously shown to be associated with expected returns.

Keywords: Expected returns; Discount rates; Fundamental valuation; Implied cost of capital; International equity markets; Present value;

JEL Classification: D83, G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chattopadhyay, Akash and Lyle, Matthew R. and Wang, Charles C. Y., Expected Stock Returns Worldwide: A Log-Linear Present-Value Approach (January 21, 2021). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 18-079, The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3129086 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3129086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,456
RANK
30,129
3 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies