Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Technology Executives in the Changing Accounting Information Environment: Impact of IFRS Adoption on CIO Compensation

Information and Management, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2018 Last revised: 22 Apr 2018

Fang-Chun Liu

University of South Florida

Hsiao-Tang Hsu

Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi

David Yen

SUNY Oneonta - School of Economics and Business

Date Written: June 19, 2017

Abstract

Accounting regulatory changes that affect the information technology (IT) infrastructure of firms have prompted Chief Information Officers (CIOs) to take the lead in aligning IT changes with new reporting requirements. This study investigates the associations between the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), one significant global accounting reform, and CIO compensation. We show a significant increase in CIO compensation in the post-IFRS period, which is higher in non-IT firms than in IT firms. Moreover, pay is at a premium for CIOs equipped with business education. We discuss the implications of our research and offer suggestions for future research.

Keywords: Chief Information Officer, Executive Compensation, Regulatory Reform, International Financial Reporting Standards

JEL Classification: M12, M15, M48

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Fang-Chun and Hsu, Hsiao-Tang and Yen, David, Technology Executives in the Changing Accounting Information Environment: Impact of IFRS Adoption on CIO Compensation (June 19, 2017). Information and Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3132577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3132577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
1 Citations
Hsiao-Tang Hsu , Sarfraz Khan
Chief Accounting Officers and Audit Efficiency
Asian Review of Accounting, Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 25 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 130
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,247
RANK
467,335
1 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies