Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Company’s Real Performance by Physical Capital Maintenance

Economic Computation and Economic Cybernetics Studies and Research, Issue 1/2017, Vol. 51

21 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2018

Ionel Jianu

The Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Iulia Jianu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Carmen Țurlea

Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

The measurement of profit depends on the concepts of capital maintenance used by the company in preparing its financial statements. The IASB Framework offers the option of choosing between two concepts of capital maintenance: financial capital and physical capital. This study highlights the adverse consequences of financial capital maintenance and supports for the recognition of profits by maintaining the physical capital. In this study we proposed a theoretical model to calculate the real profit by maintaining the physical capital. The model is applied for all Romanian production companies listed with available data by the restatement of information disclosed in the financial statements. The results demonstrate that the model based on physical capital maintenance captures the company’s real performance. This model could be an alternative to the model based on financial capital maintenance which operates nowadays on the financial markets.

Keywords: physical capital, capital maintenance, profit, Romania, accounting, performance, IFRS, conceptual framework.

JEL Classification: G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jianu, Ionel and Jianu, Iulia and Țurlea, Carmen, Measuring the Company’s Real Performance by Physical Capital Maintenance (March 1, 2017). Economic Computation and Economic Cybernetics Studies and Research, Issue 1/2017, Vol. 51, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3136613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
464
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,181
RANK
141,968
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies