Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards and Foreign Direct Investment Inflows in Selected African Countries (1980 – 2015)

International Journal of Advanced Academic Research, Social & Management Sciences, Vol. 2, Issue 10 (October 2016)

12 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2018

Jerry Kwarbai

Babcock University

A. T. Ajibade

Babcock University

Jayeoba Olajumoke

Babcock University

I. M. Olayinka

Babcock University

G. O. Ogundajo

Babcock University

Jerry Dan Kwarbai

Babcock University

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This study empirically examined the effect of changes in accounting standards particularly the consequence of the adoption of IFRS on FDI inflows of Selected African countries for the period 1980 – 2015. The study obtained data from six African countries for the period of study, these include: Egypt, Nigeria, Kenya, Morocco, Tunisia, and South Africa. We investigated the effect of accounting standards measured by the adoption of IFRS on FDI alone and further introduced control variables of Exchange Rates, Inflation Rates and GDP. The empirical analysis began with the descriptive test; the granger casualty test, hausman test, and regression analysis were further performed. The results indicate that adoption of IFRS has a significant positive effect on FDI inflows, although the coefficient of determination was only 12.7%, however, when other control variables were introduced it shows adjusted R2 of 37%, this is in line with the granger casualty test, which indicates that IFRS cannot singularly be used to predict FDI inflows. We therefore conclude that adoption of IFRS alone cannot guarantee increased FDI inflows to African countries and care must be taken as to policies developed to attract FDI. We recommend that right policies should be set to aim at making African countries economically stable to be able to attract foreign direct investment.

Keywords: FDI, Inflation, GDP, Exchange Rates, IFRS, Africa, Egypt, Nigeria, Kenya, Morocco, Tunisia, South Africa

JEL Classification: D

Suggested Citation:

Kwarbai, Jerry Danjuma and Ajibade, A. T. and Jayeoba, Jumoke Olamide and Olayinka, I. M. and Ogundajo, G. O. and Kwarbai, Jerry Dan, Accounting Standards and Foreign Direct Investment Inflows in Selected African Countries (1980 – 2015) (2016). International Journal of Advanced Academic Research, Social & Management Sciences, Vol. 2, Issue 10 (October 2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3139543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M Abdulkadir
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in Developing Countries: The Case of Nigeria
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 152 - 161 Posted: 2012
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS Adoption on Equity Valuation of Accounting Numbers for Security Investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S N Amadi
The impact of macro-economic environment on FDI in Nigeria
The Enterprises International Journal for Development , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2002
B Andenyangtso
The Causal Relationship between direct private Foreign Investment and Economic Growth in Nigeria (1978-1999) Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
RANK
366,348
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Production & Investment eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies