Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS-Local GAAP Reconciliation Statements: Insights from the Academic Literature

11 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2018 Last revised: 15 Aug 2018

Muhammad Shahin Miah

Coventry University; University of Dhaka

Date Written: March 19, 2018

Abstract

The main objective of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is to promote a single set of accounting standards which can be applied globally. IFRS 1 requires IFRS adopter firms’ to prepare at least one year of comparative information under IFRS and under local GAAP, which is termed as IFRS-Local GAAP (e.g., IFRS-UK GAAP for the UK) reconciliation statement. Thereafter, this IFRS-Local GAAP reconciliation statements have been used extensively in accounting research. This present study provides a comprehensive review of extant literature on the use, and on the importance of IFRS-Local GAAP reconciliation statements. This study should be useful to academics interested in IFRS study. More importantly, this study will be useful to those countries planning to adopt or in the process of adopting international accounting standards (e.g., Indonesia, Japan).

Keywords: IFRS, Local GAAP, Reconciliation Statements, Complexity, Analyst forecast, Literature Review

Suggested Citation:

Miah, Muhammad Shahin, IFRS-Local GAAP Reconciliation Statements: Insights from the Academic Literature (March 19, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3144137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3144137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
E Amir , T S Harris , E K Venuti
A Comparison of the Value-Relevance of U.S. Versus Non-U.S. GAAP Accounting Measures Using Form 20-F Reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP Differences: The Impact on Foreign Analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,689
RANK
334,743
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies