Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detecting Earnings Management: A Review of the Proxies

Int. J. of Critical Accounting, 2017 Vol. 9, No. 2, pp.103-118

17 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2018 Last revised: 10 Feb 2019

Stavroula Kourdoumpalou

University of Macedonia - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: January 14, 2017

Abstract

Earnings management research is of interest not only to academics, but also to practitioners and regulators. A major strand of the relevant literature examines the divergent reporting incentives that managers face when reporting for tax and for financial accounting purposes. In case of conforming earnings management, firms that prefer tax aggressiveness also lower their financial accounting income, whereas firms that are aggressive in financial reporting also inflate taxable income. However, there is significant evidence that firms also take advantage of the opportunity provided by the dual reporting system (i.e., preparation of distinct reports) and simultaneously manipulate both accounting and taxable earnings (i.e., non-conforming earnings management). As the extent of earnings manipulation cannot be measured directly, a number of proxies have been developed in the literature relying on publicly available data. For the purposes of the present review, the most commonly used ones are classified into three groups: accrual models, effective tax rates and book-tax differences.

Keywords: Earnings Management; Tax Aggressiveness; Accrual Models; Effective Tax Rates; ETRs; Book-Tax Differences; BTDs

Suggested Citation:

Kourdoumpalou, Stavroula, Detecting Earnings Management: A Review of the Proxies (January 14, 2017). Int. J. of Critical Accounting, 2017 Vol. 9, No. 2, pp.103-118, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3149352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Ch Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: international evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 6 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Avelé
D Édimo , P N
Fair value in International Accounting Standard setting: literature review and critical analysis on its practice in the different accounting standards
International Journal of Critical Accounting , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 351 - 365 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,416
RANK
175,068
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies