Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of IFRS on Foreign Capital Inflows to Australia Using Endogenous Structural Break and ARDL Approach

33 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2018

Alia Alshamari

University of Tasmania, Tasmanian School of Business and Economics, Students

Mala Raghavan

University of Tasmania

Paul Shantapriyan

University of Tasmania

Date Written: April 5, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines whether the implementation of the Australian equivalent of International Financial Reporting Standards (A-IFRS) makes Australia more attractive to foreign capital inflows. To establish this, endogenous structural break techniques and the ARDL approach are applied on capital and macroeconomic variables for the period 1989 Q1 to2012 Q4. Consistent with IFRS primary objective, A-IFRS adoption leads to a significant increase in foreign inflows. The study confirms that differences in accounting standards should be resolved to facilitate cross-border investment, and documents that the effect of IFRS adoption can be experienced even by countries, like Australia, with high-quality accounting standards prior to adoption.

Keywords: IFRS, Foreign Investment Flows, Equity, Debt, ARDL, Structural Breaka

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G11, G15, C32

Suggested Citation:

Alshamari, Alia and Raghavan, Mala and Shantapriyan, Paul, Analysis of IFRS on Foreign Capital Inflows to Australia Using Endogenous Structural Break and ARDL Approach (April 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3156926 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3156926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,496
RANK
556,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Financial Markets Regulation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies