Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Expansion of Non-Financial Reporting: An Exploratory Study

Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2018-1262

35 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2018 Last revised: 3 May 2018

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Date Written: April 1, 2018

Abstract

The objective of this study is to investigate how non-financial reporting (NFR) is defined and has expanded in recent years. First, we explore the heterogeneity in definitions and current NFR practices. We find a lack of convergence between regulators and standard-setters, as well as leading sustainable firms. Second, we examine the changes in the extent and type of NFR reported by firms over the period 2006-2016. Based on a sample of firms in South Africa, a leading country in NFR, we document a significant increase in the amount of NFR, particularly between 2006 and 2011. This change appears to be driven by new environmental, human capital, performance and strategic disclosures. The relative importance of financial information in corporate reporting decreased substantially over the same period. Third, we compare reporting practices for corporate social responsibility (CSR)/sustainability information between constituents of the S&P 500 index and the EuroStoxx 600 index. We find that overall, the percentage of firms issuing CSR/sustainability reports increased dramatically between 2002 and 2015 for both stock indices. Constituents of the U.S. stock index and growth firms are less likely to report CSR/sustainability information, whereas firms in the European stock index in environmentally sensitive industries, have high capital intensity and good CSR performance, are larger with better financial performance, are more likely to report CSR/sustainability information.

Keywords: Non-Financial Reporting (NFR), Non-Financial Information (NFI), Integrated Reporting, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Reporting, Sustainability Reporting, Environmental Reporting, Social Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Stolowy, Hervé and Paugam, Luc, The Expansion of Non-Financial Reporting: An Exploratory Study (April 1, 2018). Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2018-1262, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3158184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Ahmed Haji , A , Anifowose , M
The trend of integrated reporting practice in South Africa: Ceremonial or substantive? Sustainability Accounting
Management & Policy Journal , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 190 - 224 Posted: 2016
Amir Amel-Zadeh , George Serafeim
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey
Financial Analysts Journal, 2018, Volume 74 Issue 3, pp. 87-103. Pages: 41 Posted: 2 Mar 2017 Last revised: 6 Feb 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Baboukardos , G Rimmel
Value relevance of accounting information under an integrated reporting approach: A research note
Journal of Accounting & Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 437 - 452 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M E Barth , S F Cahan , L Chen , E R Venter
The economic consequences associated with integrated report quality: Capital market and real effects. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 62 , p. 43 - 64 Posted: 2017-10
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
427
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,706
RANK
156,431
24 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies