Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards on Corporate Performance of Selected Banks Listed on Nigeria Stock Exchange

ELOSIUBA, J.N. & OKOYE, E.I (2018). Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards on Corporate Performance of Selected Banks Listed on Nigeria Stock Exchange. Annals of Spiru Haret University Economic Series. 19(1)

28 Pages Posted: 2 May 2018

J.N. Elosiuba

Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University - Department of Accountancy

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: March 15, 2018

Abstract

In the light of globalisation, where foreign investments have become trendy, comparability of financial reports of Nigerian firms and those of other firms across the world has become a concern. Nigerian firms have been mandated to adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in their financial reporting. This study has examined the effect of the IFRS adoption on the reported performance of Nigerian banks listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. Eight (8) out of the fourteen (14) quoted banks were selected for the study. The four indices of performance employed in the study are profitability using the return on equity, liquidity using total deposit to total loan, loan grants and then market value measured by price earnings ratio for the period (2011 and 2012). 2011 represented GAAP era while 2012 stands for IFRS adoption. A comparability index for the banks was computed using the Excel Spreadsheet for each of the banks on each variable. Then the One Sample Test was employed for the analyses. The mean was used to answer the research question while the t-statistics tested the hypotheses. The results showed that mean values for profitability, liquidity and market value are greater in the GAAP era (2011) than in the IFRS period (2012), while loan grant was higher for the IFRS period (2012). The t-tested indicated the fact that none of the variables had significant effect. Thus, the study concluded that IFRS adopted does not have significant effect on bank performance reported in 2011 and 2012. The use of IFRS for all firms, as well as incorporation of IFRS guideline in professional training are recommended by this study.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP); Corporate Performance; Nigeria

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Elosiuba, J.N. and Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards on Corporate Performance of Selected Banks Listed on Nigeria Stock Exchange (March 15, 2018). ELOSIUBA, J.N. & OKOYE, E.I (2018). Effects of International Financial Reporting Standards on Corporate Performance of Selected Banks Listed on Nigeria Stock Exchange. Annals of Spiru Haret University Economic Series. 19(1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3162953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
M A Abata
The impact of international financial reporting standards (IFRS) adoption on financial reporting practice in the Nigerian banking sector
Journal of Policy and Development Studies , issue 9 , p. 169 - 184 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M A Abata
Impact of IFRS on financial reporting practices in Nigeria (A case of KPMG)
Global Journal of Contemporary Research in Accounting, Auditing and Business Ethics (GJCRA) , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 263 - 281 Posted: 2015
Z Abdul-Baki , A B Uthman , M Sanni
Financial ratio as performance of IFRS and Nigerian GAAP , volume 13 , p. 82 - 97 Posted: 2014
Access Bank Plc
The Implication of IFRS adoption
A Communiqué of Business Day , volume 9 , issue 186 , p. 34 - 37 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,056
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,948
RANK
48,494
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies