Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Turf Wars or Missionary Zeal: IFRS, IFAC, The World Bank and the IMF

Routledge Companion to Accounting, Reporting and Regulation. Editors: Carien van Mourik and Peter Walton. Routledge: September 2013. Pages 453-470

18 Pages Posted: 2 May 2018

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

This book chapter offers some analysis of the historic role of the UN, the educational activities of the OECD, and current level of activities of the World Bank and the IMF with regards to standard setting. In order to do this, this chapter describes some details of these four organizations (Section 2), and then offers a brief review of:

- spheres of influence: existing sources of a variety of standards, and a brief reflection on the accountability of trans-national actors (Sections 3 and 4);

- ‘under the radar’: that some in-house IFRS and research publications appear to ignore the World Bank and IMF (Section 5);

- five observed levels of involvement in standard setting activities by these international actors (Section 6);

- IFAC and IFRS organizational relationships with IMF and World Bank as observed from their annual reports (Section 7); and the chapter concludes with Discussion (Section 8).

Keywords: Financial reporting UN, OECD, World Bank, IMF, standard setting

JEL Classification: L50, M40

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., Turf Wars or Missionary Zeal: IFRS, IFAC, The World Bank and the IMF (January 1, 2013). Routledge Companion to Accounting, Reporting and Regulation. Editors: Carien van Mourik and Peter Walton. Routledge: September 2013. Pages 453-470, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3162846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
IFRS.org is the moniker by which the IASB decided to promote its 'brand' from Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Annisette
The True Nature of the World Bank
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 303 - 326 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M N Barnett , M Finnemore
The Politics, Power and Pathologies of International Organizations'
International Organization , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 699 - 732 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R F Baskerville , W Huckstep
The Financial Reporting Accountability of the Global Economic Multilaterals', paper presented to the 6th International Critical Management Studies Conference Posted: 2009-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
879
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies