Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examination of Financial Reporting Quality and Informativeness from the Perspective of Accounting Restatement: Evidence of Mongolian Stock Exchange Listed Companies

21 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2018

Ninjin Bolortsogoo

University of Pecs

Date Written: April 18, 2018

Abstract

The study revealed poor financial reporting quality among Mongolian Stock Exchange top 20 index listed firms as restating the previously published financial reports and providing poor disclosure about the restatement. The study used cumulative abnormal return to analyze the market response towards the restatements. And further we produced restatement disclosure index method to evaluate the informativeness of financial statements and to evaluate how supportive are the disclosures of financial statements in forming a decision by the financial statement users. It was not surprising that our results revealed that capital market does not react towards the restatement. The analysis was further supported by the finding that financial statements are not providing sufficient information through disclosures. The poor financial reporting practice was not varied by whether state ownership is participated or not. Also the frequency of restatements is not reducing over the analysis period. The result indicates low accounting credibility in Mongolia and those poor quality financial reports do not bear a cost.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Quality, Accounting Restatement, Mongolian Stock Market

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bolortsogoo, Ninjin, Examination of Financial Reporting Quality and Informativeness from the Perspective of Accounting Restatement: Evidence of Mongolian Stock Exchange Listed Companies (April 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3164846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3164846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
S M Albring , S X Huang , R Pereira , X Xu
The effects of accounting restatements on growth
Journal of accounting and public policy , volume 32 , issue 5 , p. 357 - 376 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Amel-Zadeh , Y Zhang
The Economic Consequences of Financial Restatements: Evidence from the Market for Corporate Control
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H S Ashbaugh , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effect of corporate governance on firms' credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 242 Posted: 2006
S Banzdai , N Lombodorj , B Demberel
Development of accounting practices in Mongolia Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,276
RANK
505,351
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies