Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Value Relevance Among German, U.S. And International Accounting Standards: A German Stock Market Perspective

31 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2002

Eli Bartov

NYU Stern School of Business

Stephen R. Goldberg

Grand Valley State University

Myungsun Kim

SUNY at Buffalo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 2002

Abstract

In recent years, German companies report consolidated financial statements under German GAAP, U.S. GAAP, or International Accounting Standards (IAS). Market observers, researchers, and regulators have argued that financial statements prepared under the shareholder (or investor) model, such as U.S. GAAP or IAS, provide better information than financial statements prepared under the stakeholder model (German GAAP). They further have argued that U.S. GAAP is more rigorously defined and, therefore, provides superior information to IAS. We investigate comparative value relevance, measured as the slope coefficient of the returns/earnings regression. Our results are consistent with expectations. Within our sample of German companies traded on German stock exchanges, value relevance of U.S. GAAP based earnings is higher than that of IAS based earnings, which in turn is more value relevant than earnings produced under German GAAP. A major contribution of this research is that, unlike prior research, we measure stock returns for all sample firms in the German stock market only, and therefore are not reliant on the perhaps strong assumption underlying prior studies of similarity of pricing across markets domiciled in different countries.

Keywords: value relevance, international accounting standards, German accounting standards, U.S. GAAP, accounting earnings

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G12

Suggested Citation:

Bartov, Eli and Goldberg, Stephen R. and Kim, Myungsun, Comparative Value Relevance Among German, U.S. And International Accounting Standards: A German Stock Market Perspective (June 2002). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=316525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.316525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
13 Citations
Anna-Maija Lantto
Does Ifrs Improve the Usefulness of Accounting Information in a Code-Law Country?
37 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2006 · Downloads: 2,670
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dorel Mates , Veronica Grosu
Comparative Study Romania-Italy Concerning the Implementation of IAS/IFRS
6 Pages · Posted: 12 Jan 2009 · Downloads: 433
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M. Agostino , D. Drago , Damiano Bruno Silipo
International Accounting Standards and Information Efficiency in the European Stock Market
24 Pages · Posted: 14 Feb 2008 · Downloads: 691
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jenice J. Prather-Kinsey , Paul Tanyi
The Market Reaction to SEC IFRS-Related Announcements: The Case of American Depository Receipt (ADR) Firms in the U.S.
Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming · 47 Pages · Posted: 3 Apr 2014 · Downloads: 279
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,492
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,832
RANK
9,078
13 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies