Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information in Mandatory and Voluntary Earnings Announcement Date Forecasts

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 18-20

60 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2018 Last revised: 21 Apr 2020

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Greg Clinch

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Paul Ma

University of Minnesota

Date Written: April 20, 2020

Abstract

We investigate whether mandatory earnings announcement date forecasts are informative to investors and the informational tradeoffs between mandatory and voluntary forecasts. We find: (i) The percentages of the quarter’s earnings news conveyed by mandatory China and voluntary US forecasts are similar. (ii) Mandatory China forecasts provide information about yet-to-be-announced firm performance and convey earnings news, even for firms less likely to forecast if forecasting were voluntary and despite making the forecasts at the beginning of the reporting window. The market reacts to information in initial and revised forecasts. (iii) Voluntary US forecasts provide information primarily through the forecasted announcement date; the act of forecasting and forecast timing provide some information, but no significant incremental earnings news is conveyed by the act of forecasting or its timing. However, the majority of US firms do not issue forecasts. Information quality and yet-to-be-announced firm performance are significant in explaining voluntary forecasting. Taken together, the findings reveal that mandatory forecasts for all firms, in aggregate, provide more and earlier information to investors.

Keywords: forecasts of earnings announcement dates, mandatory forecasting, private information precision, voluntary disclosure, informational tradeoffs

JEL Classification: D84, G14, M48

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E. and Clinch, Greg and Ma, Paul, Information in Mandatory and Voluntary Earnings Announcement Date Forecasts (April 20, 2020). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 18-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3166906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3166906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
V V Acharya , P Demarzo , I Kremer
Endogenous Information Flows and The Clustering of Announcements
American Economic Review , volume 101 , issue 7 , p. 2955 - 79 Posted: 2011
Crossref
M Bagnoli , W Kross , S G Watts
The Information in Management's Expected Earnings Report Date: A Day Late, a Penny Short
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 5 , p. 1275 - 1296 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
How Much New Information Is There in Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 975 - 1016 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , D J Taylor
The JOBS Act and Information Uncertainty in IPO Firms
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 6 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,494
RANK
188,584
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies