Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Significance and Relevance of Salient Management Accounting Parameters in the Context of Global Financial Crisis: Focus on Economies of India and China

Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, 30(2):2017

Posted: 16 May 2018

P. K. Jain

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi - Department of Management Studies

Smita Kashiramka

Indian Institute of Technology Delhi

Manju Tripathi

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, Students

Date Written: April 30, 2018

Abstract

The paper empirically examines whether profitable corporates (positive earnings after tax) are also creating value for shareholders measured by EVA (economic value added), particularly in view of the global financial crisis of 2008. In addition, a comparison between India and China, the contemporary and hottest Asian investment destinations, is undertaken to comprehend the responses of the two countries in managing the financial crisis.

More than 85 per cent of firms across the period under study (2003-16) have been found to be profitable; yet, on an average more than one third of Indian (minimum 5per cent and maximum 74 per cent) and Chinese (minimum 10 per cent and maximum 76 per cent) profitable firms generate negative EVA. The impact of financial crisis gauged through EVA and ROCE (return on capital employed) is estimated through paired sample t-tests performed on 260 Indian and 254 Chinese firms. The Indian firms report a growth in mean EVA vis-à-vis decline in mean ROCE post the crisis period (2010-16). Further examination indicates that the growth in EVA is because of downtrend in opportunity cost of equity following decline in market returns. Contrarily, Chinese firms register growth on both these measures during that period, successfully bucking the impact of financial crisis. Since China is a highly export oriented economy, our assessment is that such a performance is more because of earnings management and less on the corporate efficiency. Clearly, EVA depicts a more credible picture of the firm’s performance, as it not only captures the unsystematic, but also the systematic risks, not estimated by conventional profitability measures.

Keywords: Economic value added; Corporate profitability; Financial crisis; Value creation; India; China

JEL Classification: B41; C33; C82; G11; M41; O57

Suggested Citation:

Jain, P. K. and Kashiramka, Smita and Tripathi, Manju, Significance and Relevance of Salient Management Accounting Parameters in the Context of Global Financial Crisis: Focus on Economies of India and China (April 30, 2018). Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, 30(2):2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171922
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
987
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies