Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the U.S. Unique? International Evidence on the Aggregate Earnings-Returns Association

49 Pages Posted: 18 May 2018 Last revised: 19 Jul 2018

Lindsey A. Gallo

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Rebecca N. Hann

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Congcong Li

Duquesne University - A.J. Palumbo School of Business Administration

Viktoriya Zotova

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: July 2018

Abstract

We exploit differences in institutional and macroeconomic environments to shed light on what drives variation in the aggregate earnings-returns relation over time within the U.S. and across countries. We find that both intertemporal and cross-country variation in the aggregate earnings-returns association are driven primarily by two factors, namely, the monetary policy news conveyed in aggregate earnings and the market reaction to that news, which suggest that the strength of the discount rate news channel plays an important role in explaining the aggregate earnings-returns relation both within and outside of the U.S. We further find that institutional characteristics have a significant effect on the information content of aggregate earnings and hence on the aggregate earnings-returns association—aggregate earnings are more informative about policy changes in countries with stronger investor protection and greater accounting transparency. Overall, our study provides new evidence on what drives the aggregate earnings-returns relation across the globe.

Keywords: Aggregate Earnings; Monetary Policy; Stock Returns; Investor Protection, International Accounting

JEL Classification: E44; E52; G12; G38; M41

Suggested Citation:

Gallo, Lindsey A. and Hann, Rebecca N. and Li, Congcong and Zotova, Viktoriya, Is the U.S. Unique? International Evidence on the Aggregate Earnings-Returns Association (July 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3179037 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3179037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B S Bernanke , K N Kuttner
What explains the stock market's reaction to Federal Reserve policy
Journal of Finance , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 1221 - 1257 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,456
RANK
350,748
1 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies