Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of 2008 Financial Crisis on Turkish Banking Sector Performance and Profitability: Financial Ratios and Accounting Based Approach

Journal of Current Researches on Business and Economics (JOCREBE), Volume: 6, Issue: 1, pp. 43-58

16 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2018

Gülay Selvi Hanişoğlu

Beykent University - Banking and Finance Department in English

Cevdet Kizil

Istanbul Medeniyet University

Date Written: September 8, 2016

Abstract

There is an inter-relationship between financial crisis and banking performance as prior research and literature suggests. The business world today is more global than ever and financial crisis affect national economies just like dominos. More importantly, financial crisis have several negative impacts such as unemployment, high inflation, decreased investments, low levels of privatization, mergers and acquisitions. Likewise, the role of banking sector in modern economies can never be neglected. This is because banks are the locomotives of markets and they serve significant functions such as enabling investments, lending funds, supporting entrepreneurship and providing liqudity. Thus, revealing the double-sided link between financial crisis and performance of banking sector presents numerous advantages and helps to take corrective measures for the future. However, the tie between financial crisis and banking sector is still not crystal clear and debate continues on this issue without satisfactory explanations. Moreover, research focusing on the emerging markets arena which investigates the correlation between financial crisis and banking sector performance is even more limited. This study concentrates on 2008 financial crisis effects on banking sector performance and profitability of Turkey, that is an emerging economy. For this purpose, the financial period of 2002-2015 is included to the analysis to test both the prior and post crisis effects. Financial ratios as variables and indicators of banking sector performance are utilized as the methodology of study to bring an accounting approach to the research. Furthermore, both state and private banks are integrated to the study to avoid bias and subjectivety as well as ensuring independence.

Keywords: Financial Crisis, Turkish Banking Sector, Performance, Profitability, Ratio Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Hanişoğlu, Gülay Selvi and Kizil, Cevdet, The Effects of 2008 Financial Crisis on Turkish Banking Sector Performance and Profitability: Financial Ratios and Accounting Based Approach (September 8, 2016). Journal of Current Researches on Business and Economics (JOCREBE), Volume: 6, Issue: 1, pp. 43-58, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3179585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
R Aktaş
Kriz Ortamında İşletme Yönetimi
TEB Yayınları Posted: 2009
Y Akyüz , K Boratav
The Making of the Turkish Financial Crisis
World Development Journal , volume 31 , issue 9 , p. 1549 - 1566 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Alkhatib , M Harsheh
Financial Performance of Palestian Commercial Banks
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 175 - 184 Posted: 2012-02
P J Arnold
Global Financial Crisis: the challange to accounting research
Accounting, Organisation and Society Journal , p. 803 - 809 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,127
RANK
759,919
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies