Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Religiosity and Cross-Country Differences in Trade Credit Use

Accounting and Finance (Forthcoming)

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-52

43 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2018

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Xiaolin Chen

Jiujiang University

Weiqiang Tan

Education University of Hong Kong; The Education University of Hong Kong

Lin Zheng

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: June 3, 2018

Abstract

Using the firm-level data over 1989-2012 from 53 countries, we find religiosity in a country is positively associated with trade credit use by local firms. Specifically, after controlling for firm- and country-level factors as well as industry and year effects, we show that trade credit use is higher in more religious countries. Moreover, both creditor rights and social trust in a country enhance the positive association between religiosity and trade credit use, while the quality of national-level disclosure mitigates the aforementioned positive association. These results are robust to alternative measures of religiosity, alternative sampling requirements, and potential endogeneity concerns.

Keywords: Religiosity, Trade Credit Use, Cross-Country Differences, Creditor Rights, Social Trust

JEL Classification: G32, M410, Z12

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Feng and Chen, Xiaolin and Tan, Weiqiang and Tan, Weiqiang and Zheng, Lin, Religiosity and Cross-Country Differences in Trade Credit Use (June 3, 2018). Accounting and Finance (Forthcoming), Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-52, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3190180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M Pevzner , F Xie , X Xin
When firms talk, do investors listen? The role of trust in stock market reactions to corporate earnings announcements
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 190 - 223 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Pew Research , Center
Religious Belief and National Belonging in Central and Eastern Europe Posted: 2017
M R Roberts , T M Whited
Endogeneity in empirical corporate finance
Handbook of the Economics of Finance Posted: 2013
Crossref
J K Smith
Trade credit and informational asymmetry
Journal of Finance , volume 42 , p. 863 - 872 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,170
RANK
467,335
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies