Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Probability of Sufficiency of the Risk Margin for Life Companies Under IFRS 17

International Congress of Actuaries 2018, Berlin

18 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2018 Last revised: 14 Oct 2018

Frederic Chevallier

Credit Foncier de France

Eric Dal Moro

Baloise Versicherung

Yuriy Krvavych

Guy Carpenter

Igor Rudenko

Russian Guild of Actuaries

Date Written: April 3, 2018

Abstract

With the upcoming IFRS 17 regime, significant changes for the valuation of insurance liabilities can be expected. Insurers will be required to evaluate their insurance liabilities on a risk-adjusted basis to allow for uncertainty inherent in cash flows that arise from the liability of insurance contracts. In addition to the changes in estimating insurance liabilities as compared to IFRS 4, there is a specific requirement of IFRS 17 to disclose “the confidence level used to determine the risk adjustment for non-financial risk. If the entity uses a technique other than the confidence level technique for determining the risk adjustment for non-financial risk, it shall disclose the technique used and the confidence level corresponding to the results of that technique” (extract from IFRS 17).

Given that there is no specific guidance on the calculation of confidence level when using a technique other than the confidence level (e.g. Expected Shortfall or Cost of Capital), the purpose of this article is to propose a method that can be applied to life insurance contract portfolios to estimate the confidence level as required. The proposed method will be using only the basic characteristics (e.g. CoV and relative Skewness) of the main life insurance risk drivers without resorting to heavy modelling/simulations. In order to achieve this goal, this article proposes to model the two main risks present in a life insurance portfolio: • the interest rate related risk based on duration/convexity models and interest rate models, assuming that the company uses a replicating portfolio approach for modelling its liability cash-flows; • the biometric risk based on parametric models on which a few issues need to be resolved: o The calibration of the model on an ultimate view starting from a one-year view (e.g. when using the solvency 2 standard formula). o The need to separately model the different biometric risks (mortality, longevity, morbidity, etc.).

On the basis of these models, it is possible to estimate the characteristics below for the two risks (biometric and interest rate): • the level of variability measured by Coefficient of Variation (CoV); • the degree of Skewness per unit of CoV; and • the degree of Kurtosis per unit of CoV2.

The resulting distributions will then be aggregated using the Fleishman polynomials. As a result, the approximation formulae as described in Dal Moro/Krvavych (2017) can be applied for the diversified risk margin at the portfolio level. Using these formulae, the confidence level is easily estimated.

Keywords: IFRS 17, Confidence Level, Cost of Capital, Probability of Sufficiency, Duration, Convexity, Interest Rate, Biometric Risk, Replicating Portfolio

JEL Classification: G22, E22

Suggested Citation:

Chevallier, Frederic and Dal Moro, Eric and Krvavych, Yuriy and Rudenko, Igor, Probability of Sufficiency of the Risk Margin for Life Companies Under IFRS 17 (April 3, 2018). International Congress of Actuaries 2018, Berlin, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3192502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
989
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,811
RANK
53,195
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies