Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Non-IFRS Earnings Reporting Guidelines on Non-IFRS Earnings Reporting Quality: The Case of Australian Listed Firms

Yang, Y. and Abeysekera, I. 2018. Effect of non-IFRS earnings reporting guidelines on underlying earnings reporting quality: The case of Australian Listed firms. Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting. (DOI: 10.1111/jifm.12083).

51 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2018

Yiru Yang

University of Wollongong

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: June 8, 2018

Abstract

This study uses data on Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) 200 firms for 2011–2014 to examine the impacts of Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) non–International Financial Reporting Standards (non–IFRS) earnings reporting guidelines on non-IFRS earnings reporting quality. We find that firms that do not comply with the ASIC guidelines have lower non–IFRS earnings reporting quality than do firms that comply with these guidelines. The former firms opportunistically exclude recurring expenses from IFRS earnings to ensure non–IFRS earnings appear more profitable than IFRS earnings when they miss earnings targets or incur current losses. The latter firms act as responsible reporters by judiciously using their discretion to efficiently report non-IFRS earnings. The findings indicate that although ASIC has issued guidelines to limit firms’ opportunistic non–IFRS earnings reporting, but opportunistic non–IFRS earnings reporting is still present in non–compliance firms. We suggest mandatorily enforcing the guidelines on non–IFRS earnings reporting firms to mitigate such opportunistic reporting. Where possible, ASIC should increase its enforcement action against firms that do not comply with these guidelines.

Keywords: Australian Securities and Investments Commission, earnings target, earnings losses, earnings adjustments, non-IFRS earnings, reporting quality, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Yiru and Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, Effect of Non-IFRS Earnings Reporting Guidelines on Non-IFRS Earnings Reporting Quality: The Case of Australian Listed Firms (June 8, 2018). Yang, Y. and Abeysekera, I. 2018. Effect of non-IFRS earnings reporting guidelines on underlying earnings reporting quality: The case of Australian Listed firms. Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting. (DOI: 10.1111/jifm.12083). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3192831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
S M Albring , M T Cabán-García , J L Reck
The value relevance of a non-GAAP performance metric to the capital markets
Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 264 - 284 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Bernard Mees , Ian Ramsay
Corporate Regulators in Australia (1961-2000): From Companies' Registrars to the Australian Securities and Investments Commission
U of Melbourne Legal Studies Research Paper No. 335 Pages: 70 Posted: 22 Apr 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
ASIC (Australian Securities and Investments Commission) Regulatory Guide 230: Disclosing non-IFRS financial information Posted: 2011
Crossref
B Badertscher
Overvaluation and the choice of Alternative earnings management mechanisms
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1491 - 1518 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,292
RANK
672,864
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies