Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Adoption of IFRS on Shareholders’ Wealth: A Study of Select Indian Companies

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 2, April 2017, pp. 7-22

Posted: 21 Jun 2018

Samta Ordia

Independent

Shurveer S. Bhanawat

Mohanlal Sukhadia University, Udaipur - Department of Accountancy & Statistics

Date Written: April 2017

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are designed as a common set of language for business affairs so that company accounts could be understandable and comparable across international boundaries. IFRS leads to changes in the financial statement of the company. In order to check whether shareholders’ wealth is affected or not by adoption of IFRS, the present research has been carried out. The objectives of the present paper are to determine the shareholders’ wealth in terms of EVA (absolute and relative) before and after adoption of IFRS for Indian companies and to examine the different components of EVA before and after adoption of IFRS in India. To check the impact, paired data t-test has been administered for testing significance. The results of the study reveal that there is no improvement in EVA and EVA-related financial parameters due to IFRS adoption. For consistency concern, coefficient of variation has also been calculated. The results indicate that consistency in EVA and EVA-related financial parameters is observed after adoption of IFRS. It may also be concluded that the fundamental principle of accounting, i.e., consistency, is supported to a large extent by IFRS adoption.

Suggested Citation:

Ordia, Samta and Bhanawat, Shurveer Singh, The Impact of Adoption of IFRS on Shareholders’ Wealth: A Study of Select Indian Companies (April 2017). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 2, April 2017, pp. 7-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3192749
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies