Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Disclosure and Information Intermediaries in an Unregulated Capital Market: Evidence from Initial Coin Offerings

Journal of Accounting Research, 2022, 60 (1), 129–167

96 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2018 Last revised: 12 Oct 2022

Thomas Bourveau

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Emmanuel T. De George

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Atif Ellahie

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Daniele Macciocchi

University of Miami Herbert Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 1, 2018

Abstract

Using an international sample of 2,113 initial coin offerings (ICOs), we explore the role of disclosure and information intermediaries in the unregulated crypto-tokens market. First, we document substantial cross-sectional variation in the voluntary disclosure practices of ventures seeking to raise capital through ICOs, such as the extent of information released in a prospectus-type document called a white paper; releasing the technical source code; and communicating through social media platforms. Second, we find that, even with limited disclosure verifiability, ventures with higher levels of disclosure have a greater ability to raise capital. Finally, we find that this association is stronger in the presence of mechanisms that lend credibility to ventures’ voluntary disclosures, such as internal governance practices or external scrutiny from information intermediaries. Overall, our results suggest that voluntary disclosure and information intermediaries facilitate the functioning of ICOs as an alternative capital market.


Keywords: initial coin offering, crypto-tokens, disclosure, information intermediaries, ratings, unregulated capital markets

JEL Classification: G1, G2, G3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and De George, Emmanuel T. and Ellahie, Atif and Macciocchi, Daniele, The Role of Disclosure and Information Intermediaries in an Unregulated Capital Market: Evidence from Initial Coin Offerings (May 1, 2018). Journal of Accounting Research, 2022, 60 (1), 129–167, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3193392 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3193392
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
S Adhami , G Guidici , And S Martinazzi
Why Do Businesses Go Crypto? An Empirical Analysis of Initial Coin Offerings
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 100 , p. 64 - 75 Posted: 2018
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Direct and Indirect Sale of Information
Econometrica , volume 58 , p. 901 - 928 Posted: 1990
A Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,896
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,094
RANK
20,305
19 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies