Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofessional Investors Use of Biased Disclosures in Decision Making

41 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2018

Hamilton Elkins

University of Saskatchewan- Edwards School of Business

Gary M. Entwistle

Department of Accounting; University of Saskatchewan - Edwards School of Business

Regan N. Schmidt

University of Saskatchewan

Date Written: June 18, 2018

Abstract

We report the results of an experiment where management discloses in the audited financial statements a firm-specific capital structure that is susceptible to manipulation (i.e., subjective). This disclosure is allowed under current IAS 1 rules. In our study, if used by nonprofessional investor participants, the firm-specific capital structure disclosure will lead to higher firm values than would capital structures commonly determined from the firm’s balance sheet. Our results show that when participants received the disclosure it was used to determine firm value; this was despite the participants recognizing the bias in the disclosure. We also found that when the participants who received the disclosure were cautioned of management’s ability to manipulate the disclosure, the warning had no effect. This finding differs from prior research. Explanatory analysis reveals that the disclosure itself activated participant skepticism removing a mechanism by which cautionary guidance can help protect nonprofessional investors from misleading management disclosures. A mediation analysis reveals that a misleading disclosure impacts investor stock purchasing decisions through investment attractiveness. Our study adds to the disclosure literature and has important implications for investors, standard setters, and auditors.

Keywords: accounting standards, disclosures, investor, caution, anchor

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, Hamilton and Entwistle, Gary M. and Entwistle, Gary M. and Schmidt, Regan N., Nonprofessional Investors Use of Biased Disclosures in Decision Making (June 18, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3198868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3198868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
J S Abarbanell , B J Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings, and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Accounting Standards Board (ASB). 2010. Financial Capital Management Disclosures. Financial Reporting Council Limited
C P Agoglia , T Kida , D M Hanno
The effects of alternative justification memos on the judgments of audit reviewees and reviewers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,605
RANK
487,221
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies