Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Voluntary Adoption of IFRS on the Earning Quality and the Cost of Capital: An Empirical Study

Posted: 2 Jul 2018

Dalia Ezzat

Independent

Date Written: June 19, 2017

Abstract

The objective of this research is to investigate the direct relationship between the voluntary adoption of IFRS and cost of capital. Also, it investigates the indirect effect of earning quality on the voluntary adoption of IFRS and cost of capital. These relationships have been a very important issue and topic for researcher since IFRS became mandatory in EU at a beginning of 2005. Therefore, the aim of this study is to explore the nature of relationship between voluntary adoption of IFRS on the cost of capital and earning quality in Egypt and European firms. The sample is collected from the financial statements of 20 Egyptian and European firms as a secondary source of data. The 20 firms are classified into 10 adopting EAS in Egypt and the other 10 adopting IFRS in Europe from 2006 to 2015. The sample was from a range of industrial sectors. The results show that there is a negative relationship between voluntary adoption of IFRS and cost of capital. Costs of capital reduced in firms adopt EAS more than IFRS. Also, earning quality is not considered to be a mediator because it does not affect the relation of voluntary adoption of IFRS and cost of capital. However, there is a significant positive relationship between voluntary adoptions of IFRS on earning smoothness and accrual quality. Also, there is a negative relationship between earning quality and cost of capital.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Cost of Capital, Voluntary Adoption of IFRS, Earning Quality (EQ), and Egyptian Accounting Standards (EAS

Suggested Citation:

Ezzat, Dalia, The Impact of Voluntary Adoption of IFRS on the Earning Quality and the Cost of Capital: An Empirical Study (June 19, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3198533
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
974
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies