Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unintended Consequences of Accounting Harmonization in a Transition Country: A Case Study of Management Accounting of Private Czech Companies

Contemporary Economics, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 443-458, 2017

16 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2018

David Anthony Procházka

University of Economics, Prague

Date Written: December 31, 2017

Abstract

The paper addresses the impact of adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards on the mutual relations between financial and management accounting of private Czech companies under foreign control. Being acquired by a parent company, a subsidiary loses its independence and faces institutional duality, as it must respond to the parent’s directives and is simultaneously confronted with local pressures. Using data from a survey, the logistic regression model provides evidence that subsidiaries under foreign control steadily integrate IFRS-based principles into their management accounting subsystems. The study extends current research on the integration of management and financial accounting by identifying a special case from a transition country where management accounting of subsidiaries converges with financial accounting of parents. A radical change in the traditional organization of management accounting is the strategic response of subsidiaries to the constraints of the local regulatory framework for financial reporting and taxation. However, aligning subsidiary practices with the parent’s goals is conditioned by the existence of a functioning compensation scheme of the subsidiary’s management with reference to IFRS-based results.

Keywords: IFRS Adoption; Transition Country; Private Companies Under Foreign Control; Parent-Subsidiary Links; Financial and Management Accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Prochazka, David Anthony, The Unintended Consequences of Accounting Harmonization in a Transition Country: A Case Study of Management Accounting of Private Czech Companies (December 31, 2017). Contemporary Economics, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 443-458, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3200960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
C N Albu , N Albu , D Alexander
When Global Accounting Standards Meet the Local Context: Insights from an Emerging Economy
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 489 - 510 Posted: 2014
Crossref
N Albu , C N Albu
IFRS Application in Central and South-Eastern European Countries. Accounting & Management Information Systems , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 182 - 197 Posted: 2014
Crossref
N Albu , I Lupu , R Sandu
Multinationals as Vectors of Corporate Governance Improvement in Emerging Economies in Eastern Europe: A Case Study
Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets , p. 331 - 349 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Alon
Complexity and Dual Institutionality: The Case of IFRS Adoption in Russia
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 42 - 57 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,176
RANK
841,621
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies