Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Adopting IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 on Consolidated Financial Statements: An Exploratory Research

Lopes, Ana Isabel; Lopes, Mariana (2018). "Effects of Adopting IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 on Consolidated Financial Statements: An Exploratory Research", Meditari Accountancy Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 12 Jul 2018

Ana Isabel Lopes

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitário de Lisboa

Mariana Lopes

Independent

Date Written: September 30, 2017

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates how the adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 affected consolidated financial statements. Specifically, the paper explores whether entities adopted mandatorily or voluntarily both IFRS, whether expressly declared effects, whether considered those effects as material and whether those effects had impacts on selected items of financial statements and on selected financial ratios.

Design/methodology/approach: The research is an exploratory study using public entities from France, Germany and the United Kingdom. The majority of the data are manually collected from financial statements.

Findings: The results suggest that the adoption of the new IFRS 10 affected the composition of a large number of entity groups but that their financial information and economic-financial indicators do not present material changes. There is also evidence of a large and material impact on the changes in the classification and accounting for interests in arrangements under joint control through the new IFRS 11. The evidence thus suggests unequal effects of the adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 on the proportion of entities declaring materiality of effects, on the quantitative effects on selected items of financial statements, and on financial ratios. A comparison between the pre-adoption and post-adoption periods reveals that the majority of the effects are driven by the adoption of IFRS 11.

Originality/value: This exploratory paper is the first presenting the effectiveness of adopting the most important standards under the “consolidation package” and opens an avenue for future research by academics, for future post-implementation reviews by IASB, and for analysis of peer reviews between accounting practitioners.

Keywords: IFRS 10 Adoption; IFRS 11 Adoption, Consolidation Package Adoption, Effects of Adopting IFRS, Restated Information

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lopes, Ana Isabel and Lopes, Mariana, Effects of Adopting IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 on Consolidated Financial Statements: An Exploratory Research (September 30, 2017). Lopes, Ana Isabel; Lopes, Mariana (2018). "Effects of Adopting IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 on Consolidated Financial Statements: An Exploratory Research", Meditari Accountancy Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3205273
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies