Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence of Accounting Standards and Financial Reporting Quality of Brewery Industry in Nigeria

Onodi, B.E., Nwaorgu, I. A., Edibo, S. J. & Abiahu, M. C. (2018). Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference on Accounting and Finance.

21 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2018

Benjamin Ezugwu Onodi

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture

Innocent Augustine Nwaorgu

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture - Department of Accounting

Sarah Joy Edibo

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture - Department of Accounting

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Date Written: June 30, 2018

Abstract

This work examined the relationship between convergence of accounting standards and the financial reporting quality of brewery industry in Nigeria. The main objective of the study is to determine the effect of (pre and post) IFRS adoption on market value per share of Guinness Breweries Plc. Time series data were collected for period of ten (10) years (2006 to 2016)- five years before and five years after adoption of IFRS by quoted brewery companies in Nigeria. The proxies for IFRS adoption were earnings per share, market share, return on assets, while proxy for dependent variable was market value per share. The study made used of multiple linear regression and Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). Two hypotheses were formulated and tested and the result revealed that pre-IFRS adoption has no significant effect on market value per share, while post-IFRS adoption result shows that there is a significant effect on market value per share. Based on the above development, we conclude that there is need for convergence of accounting standards. Financial statements of a large number of companies are used outside their own domestic borders and investors in international markets, need to be sure that the information on which they base their assessments is compiled, using accounting principles recognized in their own country and comparable with others regardless of the country of origin.

Keywords: Convergence, Accounting Standards, Financial Reporting Quality and Brewery Industry in Nigeria

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Onodi, Benjamin Ezugwu and Nwaorgu, Innocent Augustine and Edibo, Sarah Joy and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem, Convergence of Accounting Standards and Financial Reporting Quality of Brewery Industry in Nigeria (June 30, 2018). Onodi, B.E., Nwaorgu, I. A., Edibo, S. J. & Abiahu, M. C. (2018). Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference on Accounting and Finance., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,527
RANK
508,508
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies