Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Societal Trust and Going Concern Assessments: Boon or Bane?

56 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2018 Last revised: 10 Nov 2019

Jaehan Ahn

University of Massachusetts Boston - Department of Accounting and Finance

Herita T. Akamah

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 8, 2019

Abstract

Following the severe liquidity and credit problems that companies faced during the financial crisis of 2007-2008, there is heightened interest in reasons why auditors might not issue going-concern opinions (GCOs) to financially distressed clients who seem to warrant such opinions. We examine whether auditors in high societal trust countries exercise less caution, and consequently insufficient professional skepticism, when assessing the ability of entities to continue as a going concern. Using a large sample of observations across several countries, we find a lower incidence of GCOs in jurisdictions with high societal trust. Corroborating this result, we find that this effect varies predictably with cross-sectional variation in litigation risk, management turnover, and auditor turnover. We also find that high societal trust is associated with fewer GCO Type I misclassifications, but more GCO Type II misclassifications. We further investigate managements’ faithfulness in financial reporting and find that societal trust positively affects financial reporting quality only when a company is not in financial distress. This suggests that auditors do not adequately perceive that companies in high trust countries become less trustworthy as their financial condition deteriorates. Our study highlights how an informal control mechanism can have beneficial effects across multiple economic contexts while posing problems in the auditing context.

Keywords: Going-concern opinion, societal trust, professional skepticism, informal controls, formal controls, legal liability

Suggested Citation:

Ahn, Jaehan and Akamah, Herita T., Societal Trust and Going Concern Assessments: Boon or Bane? (November 8, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3212252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Crossref
G A Akerlof
The missing motivation in macroeconomics
American Economic Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 36 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K J Arrow
Gifts and exchanges
Philosophy & Public Affairs , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 343 - 362 Posted: 1972
Crossref
R Axelrod , W D Hamilton
The evolution of cooperation
Science , volume 211 , issue 4489 , p. 1390 - 1396 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,065
RANK
496,121
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies