Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Leases and Corporate Investment

51 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2018 Last revised: 11 Aug 2022

Ciao-Wei Chen

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Maria M. Correia

London School of Economics and Political Science

Oktay Urcan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 10, 2022

Abstract

We examine the real effects of lease capitalization rules (i.e., standards that require firms to capitalize finance leases) on corporate investment. We show that the introduction of these rules leads to a decrease in investment, which is more pronounced for firms with high reliance on leases. We posit and find that lease capitalization affects investment via a learning channel and a contracting channel. Regarding the first channel, we argue that managers identify areas of overinvestment and activities that should be discontinued or downsized because of the information they collect and analyze to comply with lease capitalization rules. Accordingly, we find that the effect of lease capitalization is stronger when learning opportunities are higher. Regarding the second channel, we argue that lease capitalization affects investment via its effect on contracts. Accordingly, we document an increase in the likelihood of covenant breaches and a stronger decline in investment for financially constrained firms.

Keywords: Lease; Investment; Disclosure; Real effects

JEL Classification: G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Ciao-Wei and Correia, Maria M. and Urcan, Oktay, Accounting for Leases and Corporate Investment (July 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3214846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3214846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , R B Thomson , R E Taylor
The impact of reporting leases off the balance sheet on bond risk premiums: two exploratory studies Posted: 1978
D Aboody
Recognition versus disclosure on the oil and gas industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 21 - 32 Posted: 1996
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
A Ahmed , E Kilic , G Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,050
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,862
RANK
26,495
3 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies