Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Achieving International Harmonisation Through Accounting Policy Choice

37 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2002

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Date Written: August 4, 2002

Abstract

The impact of international harmonisation pressures on accounting policy choice is investigated in this study by examining the extent to which firms make policy choices that align with US GAAP or use International Accounting Standards (IAS) options that are not acceptable under US GAAP. Five policy areas (tangible assets, available-for-sale marketable securities, identifiable intangible assets, research and development expenditure and goodwill amortisation period) are considered. The firms are domiciled in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan and Australia.

In a composite measure of alignment, and in individual policies, there is more use of US GAAP-consistent policies, and little use of options allowed under IAS. US GAAP alignment is greatest among firms domiciled in Germany, France and Japan. There is some use of IAS options in the United Kingdom, and most use in Australia. Foreign listing and leverage are significant factors for policy choice. Foreign firms traded in the United States (US) are more likely to align with US GAAP than other firms. The listing effect is observed in the regulated and less-regulated US markets, indicating voluntary alignment of policy choices with US GAAP and demonstrating that the US regulator's requirements influence not only the use of non-national standards and the provision of additional information, but also the choices made within a firm's accounting policies.

Keywords: international accounting convergence, accounting policy choice, International Accounting Standards, foreign stock exchange listings

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, F43

Suggested Citation:

Tarca, Ann, Achieving International Harmonisation Through Accounting Policy Choice (August 4, 2002). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=321540 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.321540
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Towards international comparability of financial reporting: policy discussion paper
Australian Accounting Research Foundation (AARF) , issue 1 Posted: 1994
C Bloomer
The IASC-US comparison project: a report of the similarities and differences between IASC standards and US GAAP Posted: 1996
C Bloomer
The IASC-US comparison project: a report of the similarities and differences between IASC standards and US GAAP. 2 Posted: 1999
Citibank
New York Stock Exchange Listing Requirements Posted: 2000
Load more
4 Citations
Steve Lin , William Riccardi , Changjiang Wang
Does accounting quality change following a switch from U.S. GAAP to IFRS? Evidence from Germany
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , issue 6 , p. 641 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Malek Ahmad Alsharairi , Riyadh Jasim Al-Abdullah
The Reflections of the International Accounting Harmonization on Emerging Economies: Jordan as an Example
The Second conference of the Faculty of Business at the University of Jordan on Critical Issues for Emerging Economies in Today’s Business Environment. April 13-14, 2009 Amman, Jordan, · 29 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2009 · Downloads: 351
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thomas Bowe Hansen , Grace Pownall , Rachna Prakash , Maria Vulcheva
Relaxing the Reconciliation Requirement in Non-U.S. Firms' SEC Filings: Firm Incentives and Changes in Earnings Informativeness, and Earnings Attributes
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Emory Public Law Research Paper No. 10-134, Emory Law and Economics Research Paper No. 10-86 · 50 Pages · Posted: 21 Oct 2010 · Last revised: 18 Nov 2013 · Downloads: 308
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Malek Ahmad Alsharairi , Riyadh Jasim Al-Abdullah
The Impact of Adopting IASs on the Jordanian Environment: The Perspective of Accountants, Auditors and Academicians 'An Exploratory Study'
International Conference on Business Globalization: Challenges and Opportunities in the 21st Centry · 36 Pages · Posted: 19 Nov 2008 · Downloads: 241
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,643
RANK
32,408
4 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies