Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting-Based Risk and the Valuation of R&D Intensive Firms

48 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2018 Last revised: 13 Sep 2019

Dimos Andronoudis

Fathom Financial Consulting; University of Bristol - Department of Finance and Accounting

Christina Dargenidou

University of Exeter Business School - XFI Centre for Finance and Investment

Eirini Konstantinidi

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: June 30, 2019

Abstract

We demonstrate that the uncertainty communicated by US R&D accounting is also risk relevant. First, we quantify the information on the uncertainty of future benefits through revisions of expectations regarding future cash flows. R&D significantly influences the market’s revisions of expectations regarding future cash flows (cash flow news) and, slightly, discount rates (discount rate news). This emphasizes that the uncertainty of future R&D-related benefits drives stock return variance. We then examine the risk relevance of this information through its influence on the sensitivities of firm-level cash flow and discount rate news to market return news. Specifically, we gauge whether the stock market beta of R&D active firms is determined by fundamental information or investor sentiment. R&D drives the variation in the sensitivity of firm-level cash flow news to market return news, which supports the view that R&D accounting is risk relevant. There is no pattern on the sensitivity of firm-level discount rate news to market return news, which addresses concerns about the role of R&D-induced sentiment in the stock market beta of R&D active firms.

Keywords: R&D, Risk Relevance, Cash Flows, Variance Decomposition

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Andronoudis, Dimos and Dargenidou, Christina and Konstantinidi, Eirini, Accounting-Based Risk and the Valuation of R&D Intensive Firms (June 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3218353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3218353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
D Li
Financial constraints, R&D investment, and stock returns
Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , issue 9 , p. 2974 - 3007 Posted: 2011
M R Lyle , C C Y Wang
The cross section of expected holding period returns and their dynamics: A present value approach
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 116 , issue 3 , p. 505 - 525 Posted: 2015
E Mohd
Accounting for software development costs and information asymmetry
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 4 , p. 1211 - 1231 Posted: 2005
L Nakamura
Investing in intangibles: Is a trillion dollars missing from the GDP?
Business Review , issue Q4 , p. 27 - 36 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,135
RANK
336,300
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies