Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Capital Market Inefficiencies, Shareholder Payout, and Abnormal Leverage

Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 43, 39-57, DOI.org/10.1016/j.jcorpfin.2016.12.009

Posted: 23 Aug 2018

Brooke Beyer

Kansas State University

Jimmy Downes

University of Nebraska at Lincoln

Eric T. Rapley

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

This study examines internal capital market inefficiencies and U.S. multinational firms’ return of capital to shareholders. Using dividends and repurchases to measure the return of capital, we first document a difference in the relations between shareholder payouts and cash held either domestically or by foreign subsidiaries. This suggests that internal capital market inefficiencies related to foreign cash constrain shareholder payouts in addition to other consequences previously documented in the literature such as domestic underinvestment and foreign overinvestment. In cross-sectional analysis, we show the relation between foreign cash and total payout is positive for firms with less costly access to external capital, which is consistent with the notion that external financing enables shareholder payouts despite internal capital market inefficiencies. Finally, we investigate if firms subject to internal capital market inefficiencies borrow to satisfy shareholder payout demands. The evidence suggests that a potential negative consequence of foreign cash is that weak financial-health firms exhibit a positive association between abnormal leverage and shareholder payouts.

Keywords: Internal Capital Market, Foreign Cash, Dividend, Repurchase, Payout Policy, Abnormal Leverage

JEL Classification: F23, G35, H25

Suggested Citation:

Beyer, Brooke and Downes, Jimmy and Rapley, Eric T., Internal Capital Market Inefficiencies, Shareholder Payout, and Abnormal Leverage (December 1, 2016). Journal of Corporate Finance, Vol. 43, 39-57, DOI.org/10.1016/j.jcorpfin.2016.12.009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3218659
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies