Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Enhance Earnings Quality? Evidence from Closer to Home

54 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2018

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Jing Zhang

university of Colorado Denver

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 9, 2018

Abstract

The global accounting convergence and the potential adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by the U.S. is a timely topic. We contribute to the literature by examining a more recent mandatory IFRS adoption by U.S.’s largest trading partner, Canada. Canadian GAAP (CGAAP) are considered a close substitute for U.S. GAAP. One key feature of this setting is that two earnings numbers are available for fiscal year 2010 since Canadian firms were required to reconcile earnings under CGAAP with earnings under IFRS. We run a “horse race” of earnings quality between earnings under CGAAP and IFRS. We find that on average, relative to IFRS-earnings, earnings under CGAAP has greater association with next period cash flows and higher persistence. Further, when the difference between earnings under CGAAP and IFRS is large, IFRS-earnings is less value-relevant and less persistent. In short, the results strongly support the notion that higher earnings quality is associated with CGAAP. Finally, our results indicate that differences between CGAAP and IFRS with regard to accounting for financial instruments and investments significantly impair the quality of IFRS-earnings. Our findings are potentially informative to current policy debates on the possible use of IFRS by U.S. firms.

Keywords: Canadian GAAP, IFRS, Earnings Quality

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Gopal and Zhang, Jing, Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Enhance Earnings Quality? Evidence from Closer to Home (April 9, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3219059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3219059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
S A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L Myers
Do earnings reported under IFRS tell us more about future earnings and cash flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Bandyopadhyay , J Hanna , G Richardson
Capital market effects of U.S.-Canada GAAP differences
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , p. 262 - 277 Posted: 1994
Crossref
M Barth , G Clinch
International accounting differences and their relation to share prices: Evidence from U.K., Australian, and Canadian firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , p. 135 - 170 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
352,454
4 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies