Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS in India: Financial Implications in Select Companies

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVII, No. 1, Januray 2018, pp. 7-22

Posted: 10 Aug 2018

O Bhavani

University College for Women, Koti

Prashanta Athma

Osmania University (OU)

Date Written: January 27, 2018

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) set by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) are adopted by the companies for the preparation of the financial statements. This ensures easy understanding and facilitates comparability of the financial statements of different enterprises of different countries and provides relevant and meaningful information to the various users of the financial statements. In India, the new set of standards which have been converged with IFRS is known as Indian Accounting Standards or Ind AS and will be implemented in India in a phased out manner (Phase 1, 2 and 3) as have been notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs on February 25, 2011. The recent announcement made by the Finance Minister in the year 2015 made it mandatory for all the listed companies either to adopt IFRS or converge with effect from the accounting year 2016-17. IFRS is recommended for adoption with several benefits in mind and some of the companies have already adopted new standards and have started reporting accordingly. In this context, the present paper presents an overview of double adoption of IFRS globally by the significant trade forums and the Indian companies which are voluntarily adopting IFRS. It also analyzes the financial implications of adoption of IFRS by the select companies in India. The study is based on secondary data, and Gray comparability index, t-test and F-test are employed for analyzing the data.

Suggested Citation:

Bhavani, O and Athma, Prashanta, IFRS in India: Financial Implications in Select Companies (January 27, 2018). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVII, No. 1, Januray 2018, pp. 7-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220832
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies