Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adopting IFRS: Evidence from Bangladeshi Real Estate Sector

Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research, Vol. 7, Supplementary Issue 3, 2018

19 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2018

Tapos Kumar

financeideas.org; Shanto-Mariam University of Creative Technology; SMUCT

Date Written: July 29, 2018

Abstract

The study examines the benefits of adopting IFRS on real estate sector by analyzing some factors that would include Method of asset valuation, Comparability, Earnings, Book value, adopting IFRS, financial performance, communication tool & convergence of accounting standard. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate these factors & empirically proved the necessity to develop IFRS for real estate sector. A closed-minded questionnaire had ready for face to face interview to collect data from Employee & Employer of Real Estate Company. To analyze data, the study has used correlation matrix, KMO and Bartlett's Test, Total Variance Explained, Component Matrix, Rotated Component Matrix to measure the suitability of the variables, cross tabulation to measure the association between variables, Pearson's correlation & Fisher's exact test to tests research hypothesis. Findings reveal that depending on accounting standard used costing real estate accounting elements will vary. Adopting internationally accepted accounting standard, for example, IFRS increase comparability & financial performance. The study has found the necessity to harmonize national accounting standard & international accounting standards. It is also found that adopting IFRS increase value relevance of earnings & book value.

Keywords: Accounting, Bangladesh, IFRS, Real Estate

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Tapos, Adopting IFRS: Evidence from Bangladeshi Real Estate Sector (July 29, 2018). Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research, Vol. 7, Supplementary Issue 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3222277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
K Ahmed , J Goodwin
Effects of international financial reporting standards on the accounts and accounting quality of Australian firms Posted: 2006-10
K Alfredson , K Leo , R Picker , P Pacter , J Radford
Applying International Accounting Standards Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS: Pros and Cons for Investors', Accounting and Business Research International Accounting Policy Forum pp , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S R Bartov , M Goldberg , Kim
Comparative value relevance among German, US, and International Accounting Standards: A German stock market perspective
Journal of Accounting Auditing & Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,392
RANK
325,828
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies