Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Macroeconomics Determinants on the Adoption of the IFRS for SMEs

Bonito, A., & Pais, C.. The macroeconomics determinants on the adoption of the IFRS for SMEs. Spanish Accounting Review, 21(2), 116-127, 2018

Posted: 18 Aug 2018

Claudio Pais

ISCTE-IUL

Date Written: june 6, 2017

Abstract

Small and medium-sized entities (SMEs) represent more than 95% of companies worldwide and account for more than 65% of employment. As a move towards SME harmonization, in 2009 the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for SMEs. Due to the lack of studies on adoption of IFRS for SMEs, we analyze the relationship between macroeconomic factors and countries’ decision to adopt IFRS for SMEs. Based on a sample of 84 adopters and non-adopters of IFRS for SMEs, both developed and developing countries, we find evidence that countries without a national set of financial accounting standards for SMEs, with experience of applying IFRS and a common law legal system are more likely to adopt IFRS for SMEs. These results may be due to low transaction costs, the importance of having some knowledge of IFRS reporting given its complexity and belonging to IFRS based countries facilitating adoption of IFRS for SMEs. Additionally, we find that European Union (EU) member countries are less likely to adopt the standard. Knowledge of macroeconomic factors affecting the decision to adopt IFRS for SMEs is useful for the various entities that define international accounting harmonization, such as the IASB, regulators and international accounting firms,since this information can help them to promote worldwide adoption of the standard.

Keywords: IFRS for SMEs, Macroeconomic Factors, Accounting Harmonization

JEL Classification: M41, O57

Suggested Citation:

Figueiredo Pais, Claudio António, The Macroeconomics Determinants on the Adoption of the IFRS for SMEs (june 6, 2017). Bonito, A., & Pais, C.. The macroeconomics determinants on the adoption of the IFRS for SMEs. Spanish Accounting Review, 21(2), 116-127, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3226454
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,035
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies