Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Validity of the Instrument of Information Asymmetry, Accounting Information, Personal Values, Investment Satisfaction and Investor Decision: An Empirical Analysis of Pakistani Stock Exchanges

Journal of Policy Research, 1(1), 36-54

19 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2018

Babar Khalid

Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University Rawalpindi, Students

Ahmed Imran Hunjra

International University of Rabat - Rabat Business School; Ghazi University, Dera Ghazi Khan ; Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University Rawalpindi (PMAS); University of Waikato

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This study deals with the investment decision and investment satisfaction from the behavioral perspective of individual investors of Pakistani Stock Exchanges. The factors those adversely affect the trading attitude and activities of the stock market investors in Pakistan are the area of concern. In this study, we have constructed a model to measure the validity and reliability of adopted instrument of information asymmetry, accounting information, personal values, investment satisfaction and investment decision. The population of this study was the individual investors of Pakistani stock exchanges. The sample size was 100 investors of Lahore Stock Exchange and Islamabad Stock Exchange to measure the validity of the instrument. Convergent validity was checked through confirmatory factor analysis. Average variance extracted value of each variable is greater than 0.5 and construct reliability is also greater than 0.7 which is finest for the validity of the adopted instrument.

Keywords: Information Asymmetry, Accounting Information, Personal Values, Investment Satisfaction, Investment Decision, Pakistani Stock Exchanges, Confirmatory Factor Analysis, Convergent Validity

Suggested Citation:

Khalid, Babar and Hunjra, Ahmed Imran, Measuring the Validity of the Instrument of Information Asymmetry, Accounting Information, Personal Values, Investment Satisfaction and Investor Decision: An Empirical Analysis of Pakistani Stock Exchanges (2015). Journal of Policy Research, 1(1), 36-54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3229721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Julie R Agnew , Lisa R Szykman
Asset Allocation and Information Overload: The Influence of Information Displays
Journal of Behavioral Finance , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 70 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M I Alnajjar
Behavioral Inferences of Tadawul Investor
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 8 , issue 24 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Baik , J K Kang , J M Kim
Local Institutional Investors, Information Asymmetries and Equity Returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 81 - 106 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Baiman
Agency Research in Managerial Accounting: A Survey
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 1 , p. 154 - 213 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
RANK
454,090
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies