Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve the Association between Accruals and Cash Flows? Evidence from Accounting Estimates

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Aug 2018

Jimmy Downes

University of Nebraska at Lincoln

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Sohyung Kim

Brock University - Faculty of Business

Cheol Lee

Wayne State University

Date Written: July 15, 2018

Abstract

We investigate the effect of mandatory International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption in the European Union on the association between accounting estimates and future cash flows, a key concept of accounting quality within the International Accounting Standard Board conceptual framework. We find that the predictive value of accounting estimates improves after IFRS adoption. This improvement is largely driven by specific types of accounting estimates, such as accounts receivable, depreciation, and amortization expense. We also find that the improvement is concentrated in countries with larger differences between pre-IFRS domestic GAAP and IFRS. Our findings suggest that IFRS allow managers to exercise their judgment to provide information about future cash flows through the more subjective/judgmental portion of accounting accruals.

Keywords: International Accounting; IFRS; Accounting Estimates; GAAP Differences; Predicted Cash Flows

JEL Classification: M16; M49; O52

Suggested Citation:

Downes, Jimmy and Kang, Tony and Kim, Sohyung and Lee, Cheol, Does the Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve the Association between Accruals and Cash Flows? Evidence from Accounting Estimates (July 15, 2018). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3230151
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,605
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies