Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Income-Shifting Aggressiveness on Corporate Investment

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2018 Last revised: 8 Mar 2022

Lisa De Simone

University of Texas at Austin

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Jeri K. Seidman

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: February 16, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether international income-shifting aggressiveness affects local investments. Amid heightened scrutiny of international activities by tax authorities, firms can support income-shifting goals by locating investments consistent with reported income. As a consequence, we predict firms that aggressively shift income will make affiliate-level investment decisions less influenced by local investment opportunities than firms that do not aggressively shift income. We use affiliate-level data from multinational corporations to develop a firm-year proxy for the sensitivity of reported income to cross-border tax incentives. Results suggest firm-years with below-median income-shifting aggressiveness exhibit a typical responsiveness of local investments to investment opportunities, but firm-years with above-median income-shifting aggressiveness exhibit no statistical relation. Consistent with expectations, these results are stronger for firms with better governance or subject to greater tax authority scrutiny. Our tests extend the literature on investment distortions by documenting that multinational corporations’ international tax considerations alter their local tangible investment decisions.

Keywords: Investment, tax aggressiveness, income shifting

Suggested Citation:

De Simone, Lisa and Klassen, Kenneth and Seidman, Jeri K., The Effect of Income-Shifting Aggressiveness on Corporate Investment (February 16, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3232036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3232036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
J G Altonji , T E Elder , C R Taber
An evaluation of instrumental variable strategies for estimating the Effects of Catholic schooling
Journal of Human Resources , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 791 - 821
C Armstrong , J Blouin , A Jagolinzer , D Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm pressure: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
J Bankman
The structure of Silicon Valley start-ups
UCLA Law Review , volume 41 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
614
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,148
RANK
100,193
6 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies