Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing the Financial Reporting Quality of Chinese and U.S. Public Firms

Brown, K., Elayan, F.A., Li, J. and Liu, Z. (2018) "Comparing the financial reporting quality of Chinese and US public firms", China Finance Review International, DOI/10.1108/CFRI-02-2017-0010

43 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2018

Kareen Brown

Brock University

Fayez A. Elayan

Brock University-Goodman School of Business

Jennifer Li

Brock University

Zhefeng Frank Liu

Brock University

Date Written: December 28, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates whether U.S. regulatory actions around reverse mergers have exerted any spillover effects on the Chinese firms listed in China and whether Chinese firms have exhibited lower financial reporting quality than their U.S. counterparts. To test the possible spillover effect, this paper calculates three-day cumulative average abnormal returns (CAAR) and the aggregate CAAR for a series of U.S. regulatory actions in 2010 and 2011. The study then compares the accrual quality, conditional conservatism, and information content of accruals of Chinese firms and U.S. firms. The paper documents a spillover effect of U.S. actions against reverse mergers on Chinese stocks listed in China. Overall results do not support the perception that Chinese firms have lower financial reporting quality than their U.S. counterparts. While this study provides evidence consistent with investors perceiving poor financial reporting quality among Chinese firms, that perception is not justified by empirical evidence. This study provides a comparison of the financial reporting quality between Chinese and U.S. firms to help global investors assess information risk for optimal resource allocation.

Keywords: Chinese Reverse Mergers, Chinese Listed Firms, Spillover Effects, Financial Reporting Quality, Accounting Fraud

JEL Classification: M41, M48, N25, G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Kareen and Elayan, Fayez A. and Li, Jingyu and Liu, Zhefeng Frank, Comparing the Financial Reporting Quality of Chinese and U.S. Public Firms (December 28, 2017). Brown, K., Elayan, F.A., Li, J. and Liu, Z. (2018) "Comparing the financial reporting quality of Chinese and US public firms", China Finance Review International, DOI/10.1108/CFRI-02-2017-0010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3233867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
P Alam , Z Liu , X Peng , Y Qi
Legal origin, investor perception and pricing of accruals for cross-listed firms
Advances in Quantitative Analysis of Finance and Accounting , volume 13 , p. 253 - 283 Posted: 2015
J S Ang , Z Q Jiang , C P Wu
Good apples, bad apples: Sorting among Chinese companies traded in the U.S
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 134 , p. 611 - 629 Posted: 2016
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , S R Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,566
RANK
640,442
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies