Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calculating Lifetime Expected Loss for IFRS 9: Which Formula is Correct?

Posted: 3 Sep 2018 Last revised: 21 May 2020

Bernd Engelmann

Ho Chi Minh City Open University

Date Written: May 20, 2020

Abstract

Banks reporting under IFRS have to build provisions for expected credit losses in their financial statement. The rules for determining loan loss provisions have been reformed in 2014 by the International Accounting Standards Board and been published under IFRS 9. A new requirement which was not present in previous regulation is the necessity to provision the expected loss over a loan's lifetime in case a borrower's credit quality deteriorates substantially. The IFRS 9 rules are formulated in a qualitative way and no explicit formulas or precise parameter estimation methods are prescribed. An established method both in academia and practice for computing lifetime expected loss is summing over discounted one-year expected credit losses calculated for each year of a loan's remaining lifetime. When comparing this approach with an exact calculation based on discounted cash flows, it turns out that this formula is not correct and is underestimating true economic expected credit loss. In addition, the impact of prepayments, different assumptions on LGD, and the IFRS 9 requirements for the choice of discount factors on loan loss provisions are analyzed in detail and accurate formulas for lifetime expected credit loss are provided.

Keywords: IFRS 9, Loan Loss Provisioning, Lifetime Expected Loss

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Engelmann, Bernd, Calculating Lifetime Expected Loss for IFRS 9: Which Formula is Correct? (May 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3238632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3238632
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,550
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies