Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quarterly Earnings Announcements and Intra-Industry Information Transfer from the Pacific to the Atlantic

International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming

Posted: 4 Sep 2018 Last revised: 27 Mar 2020

Kelley Bergsma Lovelace

Ohio University

Jitendra Tayal

Ohio University

Date Written: March 26, 2020

Abstract

In this study, we explore intra-industry information transfer of quarterly earnings announcements for six major developed markets including the United States. Using an event study methodology, we find that the average cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) of peer firms exhibit a positive and significant relationship with the CARs of announcing firms in the same country and industry over the three-day window surrounding quarterly earnings announcements. During periods of high past market volatility, earnings announcements demonstrate magnified information spillover effects on peer firms. Also, our results suggest that announcing firms with larger market capitalization generate greater intra-industry information transfer.

Keywords: Earnings Announcement Premium, Intra-industry Information Transfer, International

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, M14

Suggested Citation:

Bergsma Lovelace, Kelley and Tayal, Jitendra, Quarterly Earnings Announcements and Intra-Industry Information Transfer from the Pacific to the Atlantic (March 26, 2020). International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3238899 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3238899
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,490
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies