Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms’ Voluntary IFRS Adoption and Network Effects: An Empirical Study of Japan

39 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2018 Last revised: 13 Feb 2020

Eriko Kameoka

Tohoku University; Tohoku University - Economics & Management

Masashi Okumura

Waseda University - Graduate School of Commerce

Su Yan

Waseda University

Date Written: February 12, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this research is to empirically examine firms’ incentives for accounting standards choice. Using a Japanese setting with multiple accounting standards options of equal quality, we first explore the association between Japanese firms’ IFRS adoption and network effects. We divide firms’ network into direct and indirect components and measure the size using four proxies. Three dependent variables capture different stages of IFRS adoption by groups of firms, that is, earlier adopters (adopted and announced) and potential adopters. Using panel data on Japanese listed firms between 2007 and 2017, multiperiod logit regressions are conducted. The results support the hypothesis that network effects are related to the adoption of IFRS. In addition, we obtain new insight into firms’ incentives to adopt IFRS, by analyzing the differences between earlier and potential adopters. While the factors examined in prior studies become weak for potential adopters over time, network effects remain significant for both earlier and potential adopters. This result suggests that network effects give firms stronger incentives to adopt IFRS than other incentive factors such as corporate governance and differences between accounting standards.

Keywords: accounting standards choice, IFRS, voluntary adoption, Japan, network effect

Suggested Citation:

Kameoka, Eriko and Okumura, Masashi and Yan, Su, Firms’ Voluntary IFRS Adoption and Network Effects: An Empirical Study of Japan (February 12, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3238517 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3238517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
P André , P Walton , D Yang
Voluntary adoption of IFRS: A study of determinants for UK unlisted firms
Comptabilités et Innovation , issue 5 Posted: 2012-02
Crossref
Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ), 2015. Foreword to 'Japan's Modified International Standards (JMIS): Accounting Standards Comprising IFRSs and the ASBJ Modifications Posted: 2020-02
Crossref
S Asaba
Behavioural similarity among Japanese firms: Bandwagon effect in capacity investment of chemical industries
Gakushuin Econ. Pap , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 1998
Moritz Bassemir
Why Do Private Firms Adopt IFRS?
Accounting and Business Research, Volume 48, Issue 3, 2018 Pages: 51 Posted: 27 Jul 2011 Last revised: 20 Mar 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,737
RANK
397,014
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies