Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Earnings Smoothing During Mandatory IFRS Adoption in Nigeria

African Journal of Economic and Management Studies 10(1): 32-47

22 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2018 Last revised: 4 Mar 2019

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Erick Rading Outa

Charles Darwin University

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

We examine the extent of bank earnings smoothing during mandatory IFRS adoption in Nigeria, to determine whether mandatory IFRS adoption increased or decreased income smoothing among Nigerian banks. We find that the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is associated with lower earnings smoothing among Nigerian banks, which implies that Nigerian banks do not use loan loss provisions to smooth reported earnings during the mandatory IFRS adoption period. We find evidence for earnings smoothing via LLP during voluntary IFRS adoption. Earnings smoothing is not significantly associated with listed and non-listed Nigerian banks during voluntary and mandatory IFRS adoption. Overall, the findings indicate that mandatory IFRS adoption improves the informativeness and reliability of loan loss provisions estimate by discouraging Nigerian banks from influencing loan loss provisions for earnings smoothing purposes during the mandatory IFRS adoption. The findings of this paper are relevant to the debate on whether IFRS reporting improves the quality of financial reporting among firms in Nigeria. The implication of the study is that IFRS has higher accounting quality than local GAAP in Nigeria as it improves the quality and informativeness of accounting numbers (LLPs and earnings) reported by Nigerian banks during the period examined.

Keywords: Loan Loss Provisions, Discretionary Accruals, Income Smoothing, Earnings Management, Nigeria, Banks, IFRS

JEL Classification: G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K and Outa, Erick Rading, Bank Earnings Smoothing During Mandatory IFRS Adoption in Nigeria (2019). African Journal of Economic and Management Studies 10(1): 32-47, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3240699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3240699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Abdul Adzis , A Tripe , D W Dunmore , P
IAS 39, income smoothing, and procyclicality: evidence from Hong Kong banks
Journal of Financial Economic Policy , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 80 - 94 Posted: 2016
B K Agyei-Mensah
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Ghana and the Quality of Financial Statement Disclosures
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 2162 - 3082 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , Thomas , S
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signalling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , Wang , D
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,714
RANK
627,303
5 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies