Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Income Smoothing in South Africa: Role of Ownership, IFRS and Economic Fluctuation

International Journal of Emerging Markets, 13(5), 1372-1394.

28 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2018 Last revised: 2 Mar 2019

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Erick Outa

Independent

Date Written: August 31, 2018

Abstract

We examine the determinants of the use of loan loss provisions to smooth income by banks in South Africa. More specifically, we examine the influence of ownership, IFRS disclosure rules and economic fluctuation on the income smoothing behaviour of South African banks while controlling for the traditional determinants of bank income smoothing via loan loss provisions. We find that South African banks do not use loan loss provisions to smooth income when they are (i) undercapitalised, (ii) have large non-performing loans and (iii) have a moderate ownership concentration. On the other hand, income smoothing is pronounced when South African banks are rather (iv) more profitable during economic boom periods, (v) well-capitalised during boom periods (iv) and is pronounced among banks that adopt IFRS and among banks with a Big 4 auditor. We also find that banks use loan loss provisions for capital management purposes, and bank provisioning is procyclical with economic fluctuations. Bank supervisors in South Africa should monitor the bank provisioning practices in South Africa closely to ensure that loan loss provisions are not used as a substitute bank capital. Banks in South Africa should not use sufficient provisioning as a substitute for sufficient bank capital. Secondly, the evidence for procyclical bank provisioning shows that provisioning by South African banks reinforce the current state of the economy and might compel bank supervisors in South Africa to consider the adoption of a dynamic provisioning system that is already adopted by bank supervisors in Spain, Peru, Uruguay, Colombia and Bolivia.

Keywords: Loan Loss Provisions, Income Smoothing, Ownership, Economic Cycle, Earnings Management, Capital Management, IFRS

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K and Outa, Erick, Bank Income Smoothing in South Africa: Role of Ownership, IFRS and Economic Fluctuation (August 31, 2018). International Journal of Emerging Markets, 13(5), 1372-1394., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3242530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3242530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,625
RANK
597,018
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies