Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Thin Capitalization Rules on Tax Revenue in an Emerging Economy. Case Study: Latvia, 2000-2016

20 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2018

Omolara Okesola

Independent

Date Written: July 31, 2018

Abstract

Dwindling oil revenue in Nigeria has necessitated the need to generate more government revenue through other sources. A potential area to generate more government revenue is through taxes on corporate profits. However, the prospects of generating more tax revenues have been perceived internationally to be weakened by aggressive corporate tax planning amongst multinational companies especially through internal debt shifting from jurisdictions with lower tax rates to jurisdictions with higher tax rates for the overall reduction in group tax liabilities. The capital structure of an organization determines the level of interest expense deductions from taxable income. That is, a highly leveraged company would be able to deduct more interest expenses on debt compared to a lower leveraged company. As a result of this tax loophole explored by multinational companies, most countries have introduced thin capitalization rules to reduce base erosion and profit shifting. Currently, Nigeria has no thin capitalization rules in effect, there are many benefits from thin capitalization rules from regulatory perspective. This paper seeks to examine the effects of thin capitalization rules on tax revenue by using the Latvian economy as a case study. Latvia is an emerging economy and it is has implemented thin capitalization since 2003. Data on taxes on corporate profits, gross fixed capital formation annual percentage growth, short- term interest rates on loan in the Euro Area (EA) and adjusted net national income percentage growth for the period of 2000 to 2016 were obtained from the Organization for Economic Co- operation and Development (OECD) and the World Bank database. This paper applied the multiple regression model. The results show that the dummy variable for thin capitalization policy is statistically insignificant to tax revenue in Latvia, however short-term interest rate on loans in the EA has a significant impact on tax revenue in Latvia.

Keywords: Thin Capitalization Rules, Internal Debt Shifting, Capital Structure, Leverage, Base Erosion, Profit Shifting

Suggested Citation:

Okesola, Omolara, Impact of Thin Capitalization Rules on Tax Revenue in an Emerging Economy. Case Study: Latvia, 2000-2016 (July 31, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3246637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3246637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
John Baffes , M. Ayhan Kose , Franziska Ohnsorge , Marc Stocker
The Great Plunge in Oil Prices: Causes, Consequences, and Policy Responses
Pages: 62 Posted: 30 Jun 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jennifer Blouin , Harry Huizinga , Luc A. Laeven , Gaetan Nicodeme
Thin Capitalization Rules and Multinational Firm Capital Structure
CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2014-007 Pages: 48 Posted: 16 Jan 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T Buettner , M Overesch , U Schreiber , G Wamser
The impact of thin capitalization rules on the capital structure of multinational firms Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Chowdhry , V Nanda
Financing of multinational subsidiaries: Parent Debt Vs Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,700
RANK
357,528
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies