Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Linguistic Distance and Financial Reporting Readability on Foreign Holdings of U.S. Stocks

56 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2018 Last revised: 11 Sep 2023

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Lisa S. Anderson

Cal Poly; University of Arkansas, Fayetteville

Michael J. Crawley

University of Arkansas

Date Written: September 9, 2023

Abstract

Using a sample of 75 countries, we show that foreigners invest less in U.S. stocks when investors are from countries with greater linguistic distance and when U.S. financial reports are more difficult to read. Our results suggest that linguistic distance and readability difficulty function as information processing frictions for foreign investors, even in the U.S. market where foreign investors should have the greatest ability, resources, and incentives to overcome translation and readability issues. Additionally, we show that foreigners invest more in U.S. Treasuries and consume more when facing greater linguistic distance and readability difficulty. These results are consistent with a “substitution effect” where foreigners increase their consumption and holdings of U.S. Treasuries because these alternatives avoid the linguistic distance and readability frictions associated with analyzing financial reports and investing in U.S. stocks.

Keywords: Linguistic distance; financial reporting readability; foreign investors; U.S. stocks; U.S. Treasuries; consumption

JEL Classification: M41, F21, G15

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Anderson, Lisa S. and Crawley, Michael Joseph, The Impact of Linguistic Distance and Financial Reporting Readability on Foreign Holdings of U.S. Stocks (September 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3254396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3254396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P D Wysocki
Portfolio Preferences of Foreign Institutional Investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
A G Ahearne , W L Griever , F E Warnock
Information Costs and Home Bias: An Analysis of US Holdings of Foreign Equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
J E Anderson
The Gravity Model. Annual Review of Economics , volume 3 , p. 133 - 160 Posted: 2011
A Q Arbuckle
The Navajo Code Talkers that Helped the U.S. Win WWII. Mashable Posted: 2017-11-11
Load more
1 Citations
Hyunkwon Cho , Volkan Muslu , Minjae Koo
Lost in Translation? Analysts’ Forecasts of Cross-Listed Firms
Journal of International Accounting Research 19, pp. 41-64, 2020 · 44 Pages · Posted: 18 May 2020 · Last revised: 2 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 181
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,158
RANK
163,015
1 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies