Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Dissemination Through Embedded Financial Analysts: Evidence from China

The Accounting Review

50 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2018 Last revised: 25 Jun 2019

Zengquan Li

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

T.J. Wong

University of Sothern California

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

Date Written: June 20, 2019

Abstract

When emerging market firms disclose relationship-based transactions, they face a tradeoff in which greater transparency may help lower their cost of capital at the cost of revealing proprietary information. We find that firms overcome this challenge by relying on analysts within their private networks (i.e., connected analysts) who, through repeated interaction with the firm, can better verify relationship-based transactions. Using Chinese firms, we show that firms with more connected analysts have more accurate consensus forecasts and lower forecast dispersion. When a connected analyst departs and stops covering a firm, the accuracy and informativeness of the unconnected analysts’ forecasts decrease, suggesting that information spills over from the connected analyst to analysts outside the network. We find a potential mechanism for this information spillover: communication through common institutional clients. The findings suggest that embedded financial analysts—those who share close connections with firms and analysts—serve as a channel for disseminating proprietary, hard-to-verify information.

Keywords: Financial analysts, Information spillover, Social networks, Information advantage

JEL Classification: G14, G15, M40, N25

Suggested Citation:

Li, Zengquan and Wong, T.J. and Yu, Gwen, Information Dissemination Through Embedded Financial Analysts: Evidence from China (June 20, 2019). The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3254441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3254441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
A W Alford , P G Berger
A simultaneous equations analysis of forecast accuracy, analyst following, and trading volume
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 219 - 240 Posted: 1999
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
J J Anton , D A Yao
The sale of ideas: Strategic disclosure, property rights, and contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 513 - 531 Posted: 2002
K Arrow
Economic welfare and the allocation of resources for invention
The Rate and Direction of Inventive Activity: Economic and Social Factors , p. 609 - 626 Posted: 1962
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,631
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,151
RANK
25,583
36 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies