Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Soft Law' in International Law-Making — How Soft International Taxation Law is Reshaping International Economic Governance

Asian Journal of WTO & International Health Law and Policy, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 463-509, September 2018

47 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2018

Julien Chaisse

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Centre for Chinese & Comparative Law

Xueliang Ji

University of Macau, Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 28, 2018

Abstract

This article offers a comprehensive analysis from the perspective of international economic law for understanding base erosion and profit shifting reform (hereinafter “BEPS”) as a major example of modern soft law and its effect on the international taxation regime and, beyond, international economic law and governance. This article illustrates that soft law can be seen as a signal of maturation of international law as policy makers tend to consider the developments and legal systems of others areas in this pluralistic world. This article makes three main claims. The first claim is that, international taxation has a strong nexus with international trade and investment and that they interact with each other. This requires for trade, investment and tax norms to not be in conflict with each other. The article’s second claim is that when compared with hard law, soft law has its own merits and can play a more vital role in the construction of the international economic regime. In particular it argues that, soft law is more suitable to making some experimental movements when compared with hard law. The article’s third and final claim is that BEPS, as a form of soft law, is radically transforming the international taxation regime.

Keywords: Soft Law, Hard Law, International Taxation, International Trade, International Investment, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Reform, BEPS, Dispute Resolution

Suggested Citation:

Chaisse, Julien and Ji, Xueliang, 'Soft Law' in International Law-Making — How Soft International Taxation Law is Reshaping International Economic Governance (September 28, 2018). Asian Journal of WTO & International Health Law and Policy, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 463-509, September 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3256749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
259 References
Development , On , Relations
Posted: 1974
Qureshi
H Asif , Qureshi
Trade Related Aspects of International Taxation-A New WTO Code of Conduct?
J. WORLD TRADE , volume 30 , issue 2 Posted: 1996
Qureshi
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
603
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,215
RANK
102,586
1 Citations
259 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies