Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Incentives and Analyst Bias

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2018 Last revised: 14 Mar 2024

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Zhifeng Yang

State University of New York (SUNY), Stony Brook

Sijia Yu

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy; Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - Department of Accountancy

Haoran Zhu

Southern University of Science and Technology; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: March 4, 2024

Abstract

This study extends extant research on the determinants of financial analyst bias by examining the role that political incentives play. Using a series of scheduled provincial political events in China, we document that analysts are significantly more likely to issue favorable recommendations or revise their recommendations upward during political event periods, and the effect of political events on optimism is larger for analysts employed by brokerage firms affiliated with politicians. Cross-sectional evidence suggests that the impact of political events on analyst optimism is concentrated in those provinces where capital market development is a more important performance indicator for politicians or the incumbent politicians face a pending promotion. Stock return analyses reveal that favorable recommendations issued during political event periods are significantly less profitable in the long run and are less credible according to investor perceptions. Reinforcing our main evidence, we also find that financial analysts are more likely to issue optimistic earnings forecasts during political event periods. Collectively, our results imply that political incentives distort analyst opinions and political-economic factors affect the corporate information environment in China.

Keywords: Political Incentives; Political Events; Analyst Bias; Corporate Information Environment

JEL Classification: M40; M41; G18; G24

Suggested Citation:

Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Yang, Zhifeng and Yu, Sijia and Zhu, Haoran, Political Incentives and Analyst Bias (March 4, 2024). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3262070 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3262070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
B M Barber , R Lehavy , B Trueman
Comparing the Stock Recommendation Performance of Investment Banks and Independent Research Firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 490 - 517 Posted: 2007
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
S Bian , D Jia , F Li , Z Yan
A New Chinese Financial Sentiment Dictionary for Textual Analysis in Accounting and Finance. SSRN working paper Posted: 2021
L Blaydes
Elections and Distributive Politics in Mubarak's Egypt Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Woo‐Jong Lee , Jeffrey Pittman , Walid Saffar
Political Uncertainty and Cost Stickiness: Evidence from National Elections around the World
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 1107 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,371
RANK
189,166
1 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies