Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The International Standards on Auditing as a Convergence Parameter Between US GAAP and IFRS.

Corporate Board: Role, Duties & Composition / Volume 14, Issue 3, 2018

8 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2018

Kanellos Toudas

National and Kapodistrian University of Athens

Date Written: October 12, 2018

Abstract

The present study involves the US GAAP and IFRS accounting frameworks, and how these are evaluated by accounting professionals in four (4) European countries, two of which have been severely impacted by the global economic crisis (Greece and Portugal) and two that remained relatively strong during the period of the European economic crisis (France and Germany). These issues that arise are of interest of the global accounting and auditing community, as well as this study. Academic literature has not shown much interest in recent years. In contrast, professional bibliography is very rich and has greatly enhanced the bibliographic review. The results of the quantitative study reveal that there are differences between the factors affecting a potential convergence at a country level, as well as at an economy level. Stronger economies seem to pay more attention to economic and regulatory factors, and weaker economies seem more reluctant towards coordination and cooperation in order for the convergence to be achieved.

Keywords: ISA, US GAAP, IFRS, FASB, IASB, Convergence, Accounting Standards, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M42, M48, M21, M14

Suggested Citation:

Toudas, Kanellos, The International Standards on Auditing as a Convergence Parameter Between US GAAP and IFRS. (October 12, 2018). Corporate Board: Role, Duties & Composition / Volume 14, Issue 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3265850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
T. J. Atwood , Ying Cao , Michael S. Drake , Linda A. Myers
The Usefulness of Income Tax Disclosures Under IFRS versus U.S. GAAP for Predicting Changes in Future Earnings and Cash Flows
Pages: 46 Posted: 27 Nov 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Accounting quality: International accounting standards and Posted: 2006
E Bartov , S R Goldberg , M Kim
Comparative value relevance among German, U.S., and international accounting standards: A German stock market perspective
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2005
Crossref
F Bellandi
Dual reporting for equity and other comprehensive income under IFRSs Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,371
RANK
379,264
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies