Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-GAAP Earnings and the Earnings Quality Trade-off

47 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2018

Andrea Ribeiro

NSW New South Wales (Government) - NSW Treasury

Yaowen Shan

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: November 2, 2018

Abstract

Using a large sample of earnings press releases by Australian firms, we compare multiple attributes of non-GAAP earnings measures with their closest GAAP equivalent. We find that, on average, non-GAAP earnings are more persistent, smoother, more value-relevant, and have higher predictive power than their closest GAAP equivalent. However, the same set of non-GAAP earnings disclosures are also less conservative and less timely than their closest GAAP equivalent. The results are consistent with non-GAAP earnings measures reflecting a reversal of the trade-off between the valuation and stewardship roles of accounting inherent in accounting standards and the way they are applied. We also find that differences in several of these attributes between GAAP and non-GAAP earnings are more evident in larger firms, firms with lower market-to-book ratios, firms with a higher proportion of independent directors and firms that report profits rather than losses. Our evidence is consistent with the argument that accounting standards impose significant amounts of conditional conservatism at some cost to the valuation role of accounting information. Non-GAAP earnings measures can therefore be seen as a response to the challenges faced by a single GAAP performance measure in satisfying the competing demands of value relevance and stewardship.

Keywords: Non-GAAP disclosures, Earnings quality

JEL Classification: J33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ribeiro, Andrea and Shan, Yaowen and Taylor, Stephen L., Non-GAAP Earnings and the Earnings Quality Trade-off (November 2, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3277318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3277318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Ali , P Zarowin
The role of earnings levels in annual earnings-returns studies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 286 - 296 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). 2011. RG 230 Disclosing non-IFRS financial information
H Balkrishna , J Coulton , S Taylor
Accounting losses and earnings conservatism: Evidence from Australian GAAP
Accounting and Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 381 - 400 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball , G Foster
Corporate financial reporting: A methodological review of empirical research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 161 - 234 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,340
RANK
227,633
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies