Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does IFRS 9 Increase Financial Stability?

48 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2018 Last revised: 18 Jan 2021

Arndt-Gerrit Kund

University of Cologne - Department of Banking

Daniel Rugilo

Department of Financial Accounting and Auditing, University Cologne

Date Written: November 11, 2018

Abstract

IFRS 9 substantially affects the financial sector by profoundly changing the impairment methodology for credit losses. This paper analyzes the implications of the change from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 in the context of financial stability. We shed light on two effects. First, the "cliff-effect", which refers to sudden increases in impairments. It occurred under IAS 39, as credit losses were only recognized once they occurred. As a result, impairments often came late and abruptly. IFRS 9 was designed to mitigate this issue by applying a staging approach, which gradually recognizes expected credit losses (ECL) over the lifetime of the loan. This benefit, however, comes at the cost of "front-loading" impairments, which is the second effect we investigate. The earlier recognition of losses may adversely impact bank resilience by lowering capital levels. It remains to be seen, whether the conjunction of both effects constitutes a net benefit for the financial sector. We empirically investigate this question using the European bank stress test from 2014 to 2018. It is a natural experiment, in which all banks are subject to the same regulations and exogenous shocks. This characteristic allows us to control for otherwise immeasurable effects and to reveal the true implications of the ECL model in light of the "cliff-effect" as well as the "front-loading" effect. Furthermore, the calculation of a baseline and an adverse scenario allows us to investigate the vigorousness of procyclicality under IFRS 9 compared to IAS 39.

Keywords: Bank Stress Test, CET1, Financial Stability, IAS 39, Impairment, IFRS 9

JEL Classification: E58, G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kund, Arndt-Gerrit and Rugilo, Daniel, Does IFRS 9 Increase Financial Stability? (November 11, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3282509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3282509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
J References Abad , J Suarez
Assessing the Cyclical Implications of IFRS 9 -A Recursive Model
ESRB Occasional Paper Series Posted: 2017
V Acharya , R Engle , D Pierret
Testing Macroprudential Stress Tests: The Risk of Regulatory Risk Weights
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 65 , p. 36 - 53 Posted: 2014
Crossref
L Ahnert , P Vogt , V Vonhoff , F Weigert
The Impact of Regulatory Stress Testing on Bank's Equity and CDS Performance. Swiss Institute of Banking and Finance Posted: 2018
M E Barth , W R Landsman
How did Financial Reporting Contribute to the Financial Crisis?
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 423 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
8 Citations
Tristan Brouwer , Job Huttenhuis , Ralph ter Hoeven
Empirical results for expected credit losses of G-SIBs during COVID-19. The proof of the pudding is in the eating
Maandblad voor Accountancy en Bedrijfseconomie , volume 95 , issue 11/12 , p. 381 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Oren Mooneeapen , Phillip de Jager
A global snapshot on the cyclicality of provisions: unveiling IFRS 9’s impact
Journal of Banking Regulation , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 518 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Edgar Löw , Marc Erkelenz
Long and Short‐term Investments by European Banks – Trends Since the IASB Published IFRS 9
Australian Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 440 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Zubir Azhar
The Impact of IFRS 9 on Commercial Banks’ Performance: Evidence from Cambodia
Journal of Accounting, Finance, Economics, and Social Sciences , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,603
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,213
RANK
12,165
8 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies