Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interim Financial Reporting in the Asia-Pacific Region : A Review of Regulatory Requirements

Corporate Ownership & Control, Volume 10, Issue 3, 2013

9 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2018

Nguyen Huu Cuong

Danang University of Economics - The University of Danang

Gerry Gallery

Queensland University of Technology

Tracy Charmaine Artiach

Queensland University of Technology

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This paper addresses the question of how interim financial reporting regulation varies across the Asia-Pacific region. Using a content analysis method, the study investigates the relevant regulations in eight selected countries in the Asia-Pacific region which differ in a number of country-level attributes. We find that the regulations in the region show considerable variation in terms of the form of regulatory enforcement, reporting lag, audit requirements, and reporting form. By providing the first in-depth review of the nature of differences in interim financial reporting in key countries in the Asia-Pacific region, the findings of this study will be of interest to investors, regulators and researchers in their quest for international “convergence” in financial reporting practices.

Keywords: Interim Financial Reporting, Accounting Regulation, Asia-Pacific, Disclosure

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Cuong Huu and Gallery, Gerry Thomas and Artiach, Tracy Charmaine, Interim Financial Reporting in the Asia-Pacific Region : A Review of Regulatory Requirements (2013). Corporate Ownership & Control, Volume 10, Issue 3, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3282493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Statement No. 12: Accounting Standard for quarterly financial statements Posted: 2007
Australian Accounting Standard AASB 134 -Interim Financial Reporting
Australian Accounting Standard Board Posted: 2012
Australian Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2011
Crossref
ASX Listing Rules
Australian Securities Exchange Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Peter Kajüter , Arne Lessenich , Martin Nienhaus , Florian van Gemmern
Consequences of Interim Reporting: A Literature Review and Future Research Directions
European Accounting Review, forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 4 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 6 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 802
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,075
RANK
331,643
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies