Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do International Differences in Certain Cultural Dimensions Lower Cross-Country Accounting Comparability Under IFRS? - An Examination of Risk Aversion and Materialism

54 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2018 Last revised: 22 Jan 2024

Byung Hun Chung

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: October 4, 2018

Abstract

I examine whether differences in cultural dimensions of risk aversion and materialism lower accounting comparability between countries that require IFRS. I posit that certain cultural beliefs and values affect the estimates and judgements of those involved in financial reporting, resulting in inconsistent reporting decisions and lower cross-country comparability. I find that having greater differences in risk aversion and materialism lowers comparability. In cross-sectional tests, I find weak evidence that stronger enforcement of IFRS moderates the decrease in the cross-country comparability. Having stronger legal or regulatory systems does not moderate the decrease in the comparability due to differences in risk aversion and materialism. These findings suggest that having strong enforcement regimes does not effectively moderate the impact of cultural differences on cross-country comparability. A possible explanation is that those in charge of the enforcement are affected by the same cultural beliefs and values as the reporting parties, making moderation less likely.

Keywords: IFRS, Comparability, National Culture

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Byung Hun, Do International Differences in Certain Cultural Dimensions Lower Cross-Country Accounting Comparability Under IFRS? - An Examination of Risk Aversion and Materialism (October 4, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3284817 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3284817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world $
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
R Ball , X Li , L Shivakumar
Contractibility and Transparency of Financial Statement Information Prepared Under IFRS: Evidence from Debt Contracts Around IFRS Adoption
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 5 Posted: 2015
M E Barth
Global Financial Reporting: Implications for U.S. Academics , volume 83 , p. 1159 - 1179 Posted: 2008
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAPbased accounting amounts comparable
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,247
RANK
682,707
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies