Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Global Analysis of Corporate Litigation Risk and Costs

International Review of Law and Economics, Vol. 56, 2018

44 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2018

Matteo P. Arena

Marquette University - Department of Finance

Stephen P. Ferris

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 20, 2018

Abstract

We analyze a unique hand-collected international sample of 475 corporate lawsuits involving 361 publicly-traded defendant firms headquartered in 16 developed countries to explore how country factors influence litigation risk, equity market value, lawsuit outcomes, and settlement costs. Unlike U.S.-focused studies, we do not find a significant relation between stock turnover, equity performance, and the probability of litigation. Defendant firms headquartered in civil law countries or countries with less efficient judiciary systems face lower litigation risk and costs as well as less share price decline at filing. Countries whose courts are less independent demonstrate a significant bias against foreign defendant firms.

Keywords: International Corporate Finance, Corporate Litigation, International Law

JEL Classification: G15, K20, K41

Suggested Citation:

Arena, Matteo P. and Ferris, Stephen P., A Global Analysis of Corporate Litigation Risk and Costs (November 20, 2018). International Review of Law and Economics, Vol. 56, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3287905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J Almqvist
Human Rights, Culture and the Rule of Law Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Arena , B Julio
The effects of securities class action litigation on corporate liquidity and investment policy
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 50 , p. 251 - 275 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Armour , B Black , B Cheffins , R Nolan
Private enforcement of corporate law: an empirical comparison of the U. K and the
Journal of Empirica Legal Studies , volume 6 , p. 687 - 722 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Bailey , P Rubin
A positive theory of legal change
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 14 , p. 467 - 477 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,798
RANK
349,147
3 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies