Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of International Financial Reporting Standards: Evidence for an Emergent Capital Market

Conference paper, Accounting and Audit Convention, September 2017, Cluj-Napoca, Romania, published as Ionascu M, Ionascu I, Sacarin M, Minu M (2018) Benefits of global financial reporting models for developing markets: The case of Romania. PLoS ONE 13(11): e0207175. Doi.org/10.1371/journal

24 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2018

Mihaela Ionascu

The Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Ion Ionascu

Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Marian Sacarin

Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Mihaela Minu

Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The paper explores the benefits of global financial reporting models for developing countries, discussing the case of Romania, which, at the recommendations of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, exceeded the minimum requirements of the European Union, by imposing the full adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in individual financial statements of listed companies. Using regression analysis and decomposition techniques, the paper explores the evolution in value relevance of financial variables based on pre-(2009-2012) and post-(2014-2016) adoption samples, showing that after IFRS adoption financial information becomes significantly more relevant for equity valuations. We also provide empirical evidence showing that the degree of relevance for stock valuation, as well as the IFRS impact varies across types of firms. Overall, our findings tend to indicate the success of the financial reporting reform, which could be relevant for other jurisdictions facing similar decisions.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Reform, IFRS, Evolution in Value Relevance, Emergent Markets, Romania

Suggested Citation:

Ionascu, Mihaela and Ionascu, Ion and Sacarin, Marian and Minu, Mihaela, The Value Relevance of International Financial Reporting Standards: Evidence for an Emergent Capital Market (2017). Conference paper, Accounting and Audit Convention, September 2017, Cluj-Napoca, Romania, published as Ionascu M, Ionascu I, Sacarin M, Minu M (2018) Benefits of global financial reporting models for developing markets: The case of Romania. PLoS ONE 13(11): e0207175. Doi.org/10.1371/journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3290158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Iasb
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting Posted: 2010
P Brown
International Financial Reporting Standards: what are the benefits? Accounting and Business Research , volume 41 , p. 269 - 85 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Zeghal , K Mhedhbi
An analysis of the factors affecting the adoption of international accounting standards by developing countries
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 41 , p. 373 - 86 Posted: 2006
Crossref
I Ionașcu , M Ionașcu , M Săcărin , M Minu
Accounting professionals vs. accounting regulators: an insight on the recent Romanian accounting reforms
Journal of Accounting and Management Information Systems , volume 17 , p. 6 - 22 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,296
RANK
511,635
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies