Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does IFRS Adoption Accelerate M&A? The Consequences of Different Goodwill Accounting in Japan

International Advances in Economic Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Dec 2018 Last revised: 2 Nov 2019

Reiko Kashiwazaki

University of Tokyo, Students

Shun Sato

University of Tokyo, Students

Fumiko Takeda

Keio University

Date Written: October 31, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates how the gap in goodwill accounting between the Japanese local accounting standards (Japanese Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) and international accounting standards (International Financial Reporting Standards) is related to the likelihood of firms adopting international accounting standards and the merger and acquisition transactions that result. We first investigate whether the adoption of international accounting standards is associated with the past merger and acquisition activities of adopters and their goodwill ratio. Second, to control for possible self-selection bias arising from the firms’ incentives for adopting international accounting standards, we use propensity score matching to select control firms that use Japanese local accounting standards and have a similar probability of adoption of international accounting standards. Third, we examine whether there is any difference in the number of merger and acquisition transactions, as well as the goodwill ratio, between the period before, and after, the adoption of international accounting standards. We show that firms that are actively involved in merger and acquisition transactions have a higher probability of voluntary adoption of international accounting standards than those following Japanese local ones. Further, adopters of international accounting standards experience a bigger rise in the number of merger and acquisition transactions than those adopting local ones. While the goodwill ratio in adopters of international accounting standards is higher than that for adopters of Japanese local accounting standards, there is no evidence that the former increase the goodwill ratio after the adoption.

Keywords: IFRS, M&A, goodwill, Japan

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M37

Suggested Citation:

Kashiwazaki, Reiko and Sato, Shun and Takeda, Fumiko, Does IFRS Adoption Accelerate M&A? The Consequences of Different Goodwill Accounting in Japan (October 31, 2019). International Advances in Economic Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3292534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3292534
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,259
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies