Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-Level Institutions and Management Earnings Forecasts

Forthcoming, Journal of International Business Studies

52 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2018

Wenjing Li

Jinan University, School of Management

Jeff Ng

Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Albert Tsang

School of Business, Southern University of Science and Technology, China

Oktay Urcan

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: December 11, 2018

Abstract

Using a comprehensive sample hand-collected from the original texts of management earnings forecasts from 27 countries, we provide descriptive evidence on the country-level institutional determinants and economic consequences of forecast characteristics. Using principal component factors constructed from a number of country-level institutional variables, we find that forecast disaggregation, frequency, precision, and attribution vary significantly with the business and accounting environment of a country. We further document that better quality management forecasts are generally associated with stronger stock market reactions and higher investment efficiency. Together, our findings suggest that country-level institutions play a vital role in voluntary disclosure characteristics.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, management forecasts, investment efficiency

JEL Classification: M16, M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Wenjing and Ng, Jeff and Tsang, Albert and Urcan, Oktay, Country-Level Institutions and Management Earnings Forecasts (December 11, 2018). Forthcoming, Journal of International Business Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3299530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,628
RANK
383,022
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies