Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Share Price Response to Earnings Disclosures in Emerging Economies: Malaysia and Mexico

38 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2019

Prof. Dr. Ahmed Al-Baidhani أ. د. احمد البيضاني

University Putra Malaysia - Putra Business School; The German University in Cairo; Maastricht School of Management (MSM)

Date Written: December 22, 2018

Abstract

This study aims to evaluate the relevance and usefulness of accounting information, specifically earnings disclosures, as the key determinant for stock price changes. The main objective is to investigate whether ERC behaviour could explain more fully the stock price changes, as to the reason why the stock price change is not equal to the amount of announced earnings. The study reports significant findings from applying portfolio method, which shows major stock price reactions and very large earnings response coefficients to accounting earnings disclosed to the stock exchange markets of two major emerging economies, Malaysia and Mexico, for the period 2001-2014. The abnormal return to disclosure events are significantly positive when earnings increases and negative when earnings decreases. Two measures of abnormal returns are regressed against the size of the announced earnings. The first regression uses measures from individual events. The second regression uses a new measure; that is, from portfolios made out of all observations sorted by size of earnings into ten portfolios for each country and combination of countries. The portfolio method used was aimed at controlling possible idiosyncratic-errors-in-variables problem using individual event measures. The results using individual-event measures resulted in reasonable-size earnings response coefficients with high R2 explanatory power, a little higher than those reported in prior studies on other countries. Meanwhile, the portfolio method led to much bigger size of earnings response coefficients that strongly support the value relevance accounting theory. This finding is new to this literature.

Keywords: Earnings announcements, Share prices, Earnings response coefficient, Emerging economies, Malaysia, Mexico, Earnings relevance, Portfolio method

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G21

Suggested Citation:

Al-Baidhani أ. د. احمد البيضاني, Prof. Dr. Ahmed, Share Price Response to Earnings Disclosures in Emerging Economies: Malaysia and Mexico (December 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3305508 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3305508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha , M A Chen
Who Is Afraid of Reg FD? The Behavior and Performance of Sell-Side Analysts Following the SEC's Fair Disclosure Rules
Journal of Business , volume 79 , issue 6 , p. 2811 - 2834 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A M Al-Baidhani , A Abdullah , M Ariff , F F Cheng , Y Karbhari
Review of earnings response coefficient
Corporate Ownership & Control , volume 14 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A M Al-Baidhani , A Abdullah , M Ariff , F F Cheng , Y Karbhari
Earnings response coefficient: Applying individual and portfolio methods
Corporate Ownership & Control , volume 14 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 188 - 196 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A M Al-Baidhani
Stock price response to earnings announcements: Developed versus emerging economies
Corporate Ownership & Control , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 29 - 45 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
RANK
799,009
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies