Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Conservatism of the Adoption of IFRS in Indonesia

Acc. Fin. Review 3 (4) 93 – 104 (2018)

12 Pages Posted: 1 May 2019

Juniarti

Petra Christian University

Devi Tirta Raharjo

Petra Christian University

Regina Monica

Petra Christian University

Date Written: December 7, 2018

Abstract

Objective – The Indonesian Accounting Standard Authority has required companies to adopt the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) since its adoption in 2012. The new standard emphasizes relevance, while the previous standard focused on conservative issues. While the IFRS does not specifically aim to reduce conservatism, this aspect is no longer the emphasis of the new standard. There are concerns about whether the IFRS reduces conservatism and the research on this issue are still uncertain. Hence, this study aims to determine the level of conservatism in the period following the adoption of the IFRS. The study also aims to examine the outcome of the adoption of the IFRS since its adoption in Indonesia in 2012.

Methodology/Technique – Using the accounting conservatism model developed by Basu (1997), the authors compare firm conservatism before and after the adoption of the IFRS. The sample includes companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2006 and 2016. There are 3.742 firm-years that consist of 394 companies from various industrial sectors. The data is analyzed using a Pooled Least Square method.

Findings – The results show that conservatism was high prior to the adoption of the IFRS. Further, accounting earnings are more sensitive to the negative return than to the positive return before the adoption of the IFRS. However, in the post-adoption period, sensitivity to negative return has decreased. This means that the adoption of the IFRS has reduced levels of conservatism. The Indonesian Accounting Standard Authority may rely on these results to evaluate the mandatory policy of IFRS.

Novelty – This study explores the prevalence of conservatism within firms prior to, and following, the adoption of the IFRS using longitudinal data.

Type of Paper: Empirical.

Keywords: Conservatism; Earning Quality; IFRS Adoption; Indonesia; Pre and Post-adoption

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Juniarti, Juniarti and Raharjo, Devi Tirta and Monica, Regina, The Accounting Conservatism of the Adoption of IFRS in Indonesia (December 7, 2018). Acc. Fin. Review 3 (4) 93 – 104 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3307263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Paul Andre , Andrei Filip , Luc Paugam
Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe
Forthcoming Journal of Business Finance & Accounting Pages: 44 Posted: 5 Jan 2012 Last revised: 6 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P Andre , A Filip , L Paugman
Impact of Mandatory IFRS on Conditional Conservatism in Europe Posted: 2013
W Adibah Wan Ismail , K Anuar Kamarudin , T Van Zijl , K Dunstan
Earnings quality and the adoption of IFRS-based accounting standards: Evidence from an emerging market
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 73 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,321
RANK
311,586
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies