Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Transfer Project, Cash Transfers, and Impact Evaluation in Sub-Saharan Africa

From Evidence to Action: The Story of Cash Transfers and Impact Evaluation in Sub Saharan Africa, 2016

Posted: 9 Jan 2019

Paul Winters

International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)

Benjamin Davis

UNICEF South Africa

Sudhanshu Handa

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Department of Public Policy; Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)

Natalia Winder Rossi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jennifer Yablonski

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Cash transfer programmes are a key instrument of social protection in developing countries, having expanded dramatically over the past two decades. A key objective of this book is to provide the accumulated evidence of the broad reaching impacts of cash transfer programmes in sub-Saharan Africa, focusing on countries supported by the Transfer Project and From Protection to Production Project. The book brings together rigorous impact evaluations which provide comprehensive analysis and evidence on programme impact in Kenya, Ghana, Ethiopia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Malawi, and South Africa. The impact evaluations employed mixed method approaches, including randomized controls trials (RCTs) and non-experimental designs, qualitative methods, and village LEWIE-computable general equilibrium (CGE) modelling. Further, the book analyses the relationship between the impact evaluations and the policy and programme implementation process occurring in each country, providing lessons on the political economy of cash transfer programme impact evaluation.

Suggested Citation:

Winters, Paul and Davis, Benjamin and Handa, Sudhanshu and Winder Rossi, Natalia and Yablonski, Jennifer, The Transfer Project, Cash Transfers, and Impact Evaluation in Sub-Saharan Africa (2016). From Evidence to Action: The Story of Cash Transfers and Impact Evaluation in Sub Saharan Africa, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3307450
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies