Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Firms in Developing Countries in Spider Webs or Iron Cages? Geographic Traps and Firm Performance

Thunderbird International Business Review, 57(6), 481-503 (2015)

59 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2019

David Zoogah

Independent

Henry Mburu

THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF EASTERN AFRICA

Date Written: March 8, 2015

Abstract

We explore the question of whether a geographic context represents opportunity or threat using two competing theories - geography of opportunity and curse of geography – and multilevel techniques to analyze data from 366 firms in six African countries (and validated with 128 firms from 24 countries). We find that location (landlocked and bad neighbors) relate negatively to both sales and net profit. Infrastructure, however, does not relate directly to firm performance at a significant level but interacts with one firm characteristic – multinationality - in relating to sales and net profit. Locational traps – landlocked and bad neighbors – also interact with multinationality and CEO origin – in relating to sales and net profit. We discuss the implications of these findings for research and practice.

Keywords: Geographic traps, Africa, location, infrastructure, demography, firm performance

Suggested Citation:

Zoogah, David and Mburu, Henry, Are Firms in Developing Countries in Spider Webs or Iron Cages? Geographic Traps and Firm Performance (March 8, 2015). Thunderbird International Business Review, 57(6), 481-503 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3308113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
E Amoako-Agyei
Cross-cultural management and organizational behavior in Africa
Thunderbird International Business Review , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 329 - 339 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Anand , A Sen
The income component of the Human Development Index
Journal of Human Development , volume 1 , p. 83 - 106 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Anand , A K Sen
Sustainable human development: concepts and priorities Posted: 1994
F Anseel , F Lievens
The relationship between uncertainty and desire for feedback: a test of competing hypotheses
Journal of Applied Social Psychology , volume 37 , p. 1007 - 1040 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
969
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Built Environment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies