Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revaluation of Non-Current Assets Under IAS-16: Possibility of Any Managerial Inducement: Evidence From a South Asian Economy

Rafay, A., Yasser, F., & Khalid, Z. (2019). Revaluation of Non-Current Assets under IAS-16: Possibility of any Managerial inducement - Evidence from a South Asian Economy. DLSU Business and Economics Review, 29(1), 93-105

15 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2019 Last revised: 4 Mar 2021

Abdul Rafay

University of Management & Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Farah Yasser

University of Management and Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Zunera Khalid

University of Management and Technology (UMT), Pakistan

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

The revaluation of non-current assets under IAS-16 has now turned into a usual practice in Pakistan. The obvious reason is to give additional significant information to various stakeholders around an organization's balance sheet. Besides, the management inducement behind this revaluation of assets may differ. The aim of this research is to study the essential management incentives that arise due to the upward revaluation of non-current assets of firms listed on the Pakistan Stock Exchange for the period 2008–2017. Logistic regression and Mann Whitney U-test were used to analyze the data. It was hypothesized that firms take revaluation decisions to reduce the contracting cost, political cost, and the information asymmetry cost. It is concluded that there is a significant relationship between political cost (firm size) and some portion of information asymmetry cost (intensity non-current assets and stock dividend) with the dependent variable. Other variables like information asymmetry cost and growth were found to be insignificant and did not show any significant relationship with the revaluation of non-current assets. Contracting cost was not found to be significantly linked with upward revaluation. It is finally concluded that firms with a larger size, more intensity ratio, and less declaration of the stock dividend will have more chances to do a continual revaluation of non-current assets under IAS-16. This paper especially looks at whether revaluation of non-current assets is connected with the size of a firm and whether firms revalue their assets with an end goal to strengthen their financial position and prospects. Practically, in the light of this study, accounting regulatory bodies must define some preconditions for revaluation policy to stop the usage of creative and abusive reporting. Policymakers should encourage researchers to investigate the impact of revaluation policy on the financial performance of the companies.

Keywords: Information asymmetry, Leverage, Non-Current Assets, Political costs, Revaluation

JEL Classification: M-20, M-40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rafay, Abdul and Yasser, Farah and Khalid, Zunera, Revaluation of Non-Current Assets Under IAS-16: Possibility of Any Managerial Inducement: Evidence From a South Asian Economy (July 1, 2019). Rafay, A., Yasser, F., & Khalid, Z. (2019). Revaluation of Non-Current Assets under IAS-16: Possibility of any Managerial inducement - Evidence from a South Asian Economy. DLSU Business and Economics Review, 29(1), 93-105, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3309640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Anderson , I Zimmer
Reactions to regulation of accounting for goodwill
Accounting & Finance , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 50 Posted: 1992
Crossref
H Y Baek , D Y Lee
Motives for and effects of asset revaluation: An examination of South Korean data. Emerging Markets Finance and Trade , volume 52 , p. 2808 - 2817 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Ž A Barać , S Šodan
Motives for asset revaluation policy choice in Croatia
Croatian Operational Research Review , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 70 Posted: 2011
Load more
3 Citations
Md. Tahidur Rahman , Syed Zabid Hossain
Does Fixed Asset Revaluation Create Avenues for Financial Numbers Game? Evidence from a Developing Country
Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business (JAFEB) 7, no. 9 (2020): 293–304, · 12 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 192
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Md. Tahidur Rahman , Syed Zabid Hossain
Company-Specific Characteristics and Market-Driven Fixed Asset Revaluation in An Emerging Asian Economy
Management & Accounting Review 19, no. 3 (2020): 153–186 , · 12 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 187
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Md. Tahidur Rahman , Syed Zabid Hossain , Md. Anwarul Haque
Timing, Recurrence, and Effects of Fixed Assets Revaluation: Evidence from Bangladesh
International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, 11(2), 67–75., · 9 Pages · Posted: 9 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 1 May 2021 · Downloads: 231
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
931
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,860
RANK
57,767
3 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies