Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Language on Income Smoothing: Cross-Country Evidence

56 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2019 Last revised: 27 Feb 2023

Wenjiao Cao

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Zhifang Zhang

Warwick Business School

Date Written: February 2023

Abstract

We examine whether and how the time-oriented tendency embedded in languages influences income smoothing. Separating languages into weak- versus strong-future time reference (FTR) groups, we find that firms in weak-FTR countries tend to smooth earnings more. We also find that relationships with major stakeholders (i.e., debtholders, suppliers, and employees) amplify the effect of the FTR of languages on income smoothing. Additional analyses suggest that income smoothing driven by the FTR of languages enhances earnings informativeness. These findings provide new insights on the role that language plays in financial reporting decisions and on how relationships with major stakeholders influence the relation between an important feature of language and corporate income smoothing behavior.

Keywords: language; future time reference; income smoothing; stakeholder relationships; informativeness of earnings

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Wenjiao and Myers, Linda A. and Zhang, Zhifang, The Effect of Language on Income Smoothing: Cross-Country Evidence (February 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3312686 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3312686
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
D Amiram , E Owens
Sign reversal in the relationship between income smoothing and cost of debt
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 45 , issue 1-2 , p. 40 - 71 Posted: 2018
B Baik , S Choi , D B Farber
Managerial ability and income smoothing
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2020
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Load more
2 Citations
Michael Machokoto , Ishmael Tingbani , Hesham Bassyouny
The Power of Spoken Words: Evidence from the Impact Of Languages on Corporate Employment Decisions
RESPOL-D-24-02345 · 50 Pages · Posted: 27 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael Machokoto , Akios Majoni
Linguistic Clocks and Financial Choices: The Future Orientation of Languages and SME Debt Aversion
EL62142 · 21 Pages · Posted: 10 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 38
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,759
RANK
140,158
2 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies