Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Adoption of IFRS in Latin America: A Boon or a Bias

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2019 Last revised: 20 Jan 2019

André Aroldo Freitas De Moura

FGV - EAESP

Jairaj Gupta

University of York

Date Written: January 10, 2019

Abstract

Exploiting the unique feature that Latin American countries have not undergone a significant change to the enforcement of accounting standards and investor protection mechanisms, we investigate whether mandatory adoption of IFRS and firm-level reporting incentives improve analysts’ information environment in Latin American countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Peru), and whether the precision of public, private and consensus information improve after IFRS adoption. The results show that mandatory adoption of IFRS and firm-level reporting incentives improve analysts’ information environment. Overall, we confirm the positive effects of IFRS adoption, because the precision of public and consensus information is enhanced.

Keywords: IFRS, Analysts’ Information Environment, Forecast Accuracy, Target Price Forecast Dispersion, Investor Protection Mechanisms

JEL Classification: G14, G18, M40

Suggested Citation:

De Moura, André Aroldo Freitas and Gupta, Jairaj, Mandatory Adoption of IFRS in Latin America: A Boon or a Bias (January 10, 2019). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3313165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
O E Barron , O Kim , S C Lim , D E Stevens
Using analysts' forecasts to measure properties of analysts' information environment
Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
478,514
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies