Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Skill and Firm Characteristics: Global Perspectives

Security Analysts Journal of Japan October 2003, 41 (10)

Posted: 21 Jan 2019

Vinesh Jha

ExtractAlpha

Date Written: October 1, 2003

Abstract

We address whether analyst skill is a persistent characteristic, and the extent to which skill is associated with characteristics of the brokerage firm employing the analyst. In particular, we examine analysts’ ability to publish accurate earnings estimates consistently. We look globally with a focus on the United States and Japan, and find that this ability is persistent in all regions. Secondly, we find that analyst estimate accuracy is in part associated with the size of the firm employing the analyst; the home country of the firm, in the case of Japanese stocks; and underwriting affiliations of the firm employing the analyst, in the case of U.S. stocks. Finally, we demonstrate how these firm characteristics relate to the profitability of stock recommendations made by the analysts employed by firms of various types.

Suggested Citation:

Jha, Vinesh, Analyst Skill and Firm Characteristics: Global Perspectives (October 1, 2003). Security Analysts Journal of Japan October 2003, 41 (10), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3314528
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies