Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meta-Analysis of the Impact of Adoption of IFRS on Financial Reporting Comparability, Market Liquidity, and Cost of Capital

2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference

56 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2019 Last revised: 29 May 2019

Solomon Opare

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

Date Written: January 19, 2019

Abstract

A large number of empirical studies have addressed the effects of adoption of IFRS, but the results have been mixed. We use a meta-analysis of 55 empirical studies with 1,259 effect sizes to determine the impact of adoption of IFRS on financial reporting comparability, market liquidity, cost of equity and cost of debt. This approach provides an objective view of the empirical results, in contrast to narrative reviews, which offer subjective conclusions. We find that IFRS adoption has increased financial reporting comparability, market liquidity, and reduced cost of equity. For cost of debt, decrease is observed only for voluntary adoption. Our meta-regression analysis shows how the results differ across mandatory and voluntary adoption of IFRS and that the measurement choices, type of control variables, study design, and strength of results explain the variation in the observed effect of adoption of IFRS. We emphasise the importance of these study characteristics and call for further studies using more recent data, on the debt market, and the long-term effect of IFRS adoption. This study should be of interest to regulators and policymakers as they are expected to assess the impacts of adoption of IFRS.

Keywords: Cost of equity; Cost of debt; Financial reporting comparability; IFRS adoption; Market liquidity; Meta-analysis

Suggested Citation:

Opare, Solomon and Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and van Zijl, Tony, Meta-Analysis of the Impact of Adoption of IFRS on Financial Reporting Comparability, Market Liquidity, and Cost of Capital (January 19, 2019). 2019 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3319067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3319067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 72 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: a meta-analysis
British Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
H Alexandre , J Clavier
Adoption of IAS/IFRS, liquidity constraints, and credit rationing: The case of the European banking industry
The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance , volume 63 , p. 249 - 58 Posted: 2017
Crossref
P Alves , P F Pope , S Young
European cross-border information transfers and the impact of accounting standards regime changes
Chartered Accountants' Trustees Posted: 2010
Load more
7 Citations
Sigitas Karpavicius
The Cost of Capital and Optimal Financing Policy in a Dynamic Setting
48 Pages · Posted: 16 Feb 2013 · Last revised: 20 Jul 2014 · Downloads: 197
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Beatriz Garcia Osma , Jacobo Gomez-Conde , Elena de las Heras
Debt Pressure and Interactive Use of Control Systems: Effects on Cost of Debt
Management Accounting Research · 67 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2016 · Last revised: 7 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 363
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sandip Sinha
Determinants of Capital Structure: An Empirical Study of Selected Indian Manufacturing Companies
1 Pages · Posted: 24 Mar 2020 · Last revised: 15 May 2025 · Downloads: 403
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ekaete Efretuei , Rekha Rao-Nicholson , Di Mao
Disclosure Attributes, IFRS and Business Acquisitions: Evidence from Emerging- Market Multinationals’ Cross-Border Acquisitions
40 Pages · Posted: 12 Aug 2022 · Last revised: 2 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 155
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,467
RANK
175,588
7 Citations
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies