Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Eliminating the 20-F Reconciliation on the Cost of Debt: An Exploratory Study

Journal of International Accounting Research Forthcoming

Posted: 7 Feb 2019

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Saiying Deng

Kent State University

Parveen P. Gupta

Lehigh University - Department of Accounting

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Date Written: January 24, 2019

Abstract

In 2007, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission voted to eliminate the 20F reconciliation requirement for foreign issuers listing their stocks or bonds in the U.S. capital markets and preparing their financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Distinct from prior research focusing on the equity market, we investigate the impact of eliminating the 20-F reconciliation on the cost of debt in the U.S. listed foreign bond market. Employing a difference-in-differences approach, we document that bond yield spread increases for foreign IFRS bond issuers after the elimination of 20-F reconciliation. The results suggest that bondholders, on average, view the elimination of 20-F reconciliation as an information loss. Cross-sectional analyses reveal that the positive association between the elimination of 20-F reconciliation and bond yield spread is more pronounced for firms with greater stock return volatility, lower institutional ownership, weaker reporting incentives, and higher country-level investor protection.

Keywords: 20-F reconciliation; cost of debt; U.S. cross listing; IFRS; U.S. GAAP

JEL Classification: M41; G15; G18

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Lucy Huajing and Deng, Saiying and Gupta, Parveen P. and Sami, Heibatollah, The Impact of Eliminating the 20-F Reconciliation on the Cost of Debt: An Exploratory Study (January 24, 2019). Journal of International Accounting Research Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3321900
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,101
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies