Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of IFRS Adoption in the European Union on Banks’ Cost of Equity: Some Evidence from an Event Study

International Journal of Business and Social Science Vol. 7, No. 10; October 2016

18 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2019

Vera Palea

University of Turin

Date Written: February 2016

Abstract

The effects of disclosure level on the cost of equity are a matter of considerable interest and importance to the financial reporting community. Economic theory indeed claims that commitment to increased level of disclosure reduces the cost of capital component that arises from information asymmetries. Accordingly, this paper investigates the effects of IFRS adoption in Europe on the cost of equity for the bank industry. In doing so, it performs an event study, which isolates the effects of accounting changes on the cost of capital from institutional and enforcement mechanisms.

This study shows that IFRS adoption has exerted, on average, a positive effect on the cost of capital for the bank industry at least in the very short run. Firms adopting IFRS seem to have experienced a lower cost of equity in the period immediately subsequent the release of financial reporting according to the new accounting standard set.

Keywords: IFRS, European Union, Bank Industry, Cost of Equity

Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera, The Effects of IFRS Adoption in the European Union on Banks’ Cost of Equity: Some Evidence from an Event Study (February 2016). International Journal of Business and Social Science Vol. 7, No. 10; October 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3328814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwitch , M Zmijeski
The relative in formativeness of accounting disclosure in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset Pricing and the Bid-Ask Spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 272 Posted: 1986
Crossref
E Amir , T S Harris , E K Venuti
A Comparison of the Value-Relevance of U.S. Versus Non-U.S. GAAP Accounting Measures Using Form 20-F Reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ando , A J Auerbach
The Cost of Capital in the United States and Japan: A Comparison
Journal of the Japanese and International Economies , volume 2 , p. 134 - 158 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,169
RANK
564,240
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies