Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting for Sustainable Development: Critical Insights Into IFRS Implementation in the European Union

Accounting Forum 2018 (42)

28 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2019

Vera Palea

University of Turin

Date Written: February 4, 2019

Abstract

By adopting a political economy perspective to accounting, this paper provides an overall post-implementation assessment of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption relative to the European Union’s (EU’s) fundamental goal of sustainable development. The paper questions the consistency of the International Accounting Standards Board’s business view with the EU’s and provides some critical insights into the potential long-run effects of IFRS on the European economy and society. Therefore, it raises several doubts about unquestioned accounting standardization at a global level and makes some suggestions for future policymaking and research.

Keywords: Financial Reporting; IFRS; European Union; Sustainable Development

JEL Classification: A12; M41; M20

Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera, Financial Reporting for Sustainable Development: Critical Insights Into IFRS Implementation in the European Union (February 4, 2019). Accounting Forum 2018 (42) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3328408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
146 References
M Aglietta , A Rebérioux
Corporate Governance Adrift: a critique of shareholder value. The Saint-Gobain Centre for Economic Studies Series Posted: 2005
M Albert
Capitalism against capitalism Posted: 1993
I Alvarez
Financialization, non-financial corporations and income inequality: the case of France
Socio-Economic Review , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 449 - 475 Posted: 2015
Crossref
E Amir , G Yanling , D Oswald
The effect of pension accounting on corporate pension asset allocation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Najlaa Kallousa , Hussein A. Warsame
Examining Often-Heard Allegations: Is U.S. GAAP More Rules-based than IFRS?
55 Pages · Posted: 6 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 131
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jukka T Mähönen , Vera Palea
Analyzing Double Materiality Through the Lens of the European Political Constitution: Implications for Interoperability and Standards-Setting
University of Oslo Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2024-05, Nordic & European Company Law Working Paper No. 24-03 · 30 Pages · Posted: 21 Feb 2024 · Last revised: 20 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 685
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,133
RANK
564,240
2 Citations
146 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies