Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market and Transaction Multiples’ Accuracy in the European Equity Market

International Journal of Business and Social Science Vol. 7, No. 5; May 2016

8 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2019

Vera Palea

University of Turin

Date Written: February 2016

Abstract

In spite of their widespread use in practice, accounting-based multiples are subject of few academic studies. This paper investigates market and transaction multiples’ accuracy in corporate equity valuation by considering a sample of listed companies which are assumed to be private and evaluated according to accounting-based multiples. Since equity valuation is particularly challenging under stressed conditions, it focuses on the core period of the recent financial crisis. Results show that transaction and market multiples perform very poorly at least during financial turmoil, i.e. under the most uncertain information condition, and those relevant firm specific adjustments are necessary. Specifically, equity valuation based on multiples entails measurement errors which tend to overestimate fundamental values and to lead to more results that are volatile.

Keywords: Corporate Valuation, Market Multiples, Transaction Multiples, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera, Market and Transaction Multiples’ Accuracy in the European Equity Market (February 2016). International Journal of Business and Social Science Vol. 7, No. 5; May 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3328811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A Alford
The effect of the set of comparable firms on the accuracy of the price-earnings valuation method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 108 Posted: 1992
Crossref
S Baiman , R Verrecchia
The relation among capital markets, financial disclosure, production efficiency, and insider trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M E Barth
Fair values and financial statement volatility
The market discipline across countries and industries Posted: 2004
J H Cochrane
The risk and return of venture capital
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 52 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,173
RANK
444,235
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies