Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Reporting Regulation Affect Earnings Quality? The Case of Foreign Firms

19 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2019

Nadia Cardoso Moreira

FUCAPE Business School

Felipe Ramos

FUCAPE Business School

Date Written: February 7, 2019

Abstract

In this study we aim to investigate whether earnings quality varies accordingly the reporting regulation level stipulated by the SEC to U.S. and foreign firms listed in the U.S. market. Using abnormal accruals, earnings smoothness and managing towards earnings targets as earnings quality measures, and a sample containing U.S. and foreign firms listed in the U.S. market between 2000 and 2015, the results indicate that foreign firms complying with the full regulation tend to have more informative earnings than U.S. firms, while foreign firms with reporting regulation exemptions tend to have less informative earnings than U.S. firms. Concluding that the lower quality of foreign firms’ earnings found on prior literature could be diminish if the SEC regulated all firms at the same extent.

Keywords: earnings quality; earnings informativeness; reporting regulation; foreign firms; foreign private issuer

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Cardoso Moreira, Nadia and Ramos, Felipe, Does Reporting Regulation Affect Earnings Quality? The Case of Foreign Firms (February 7, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3330664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3330664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,255
RANK
549,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies