Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Transition to Ind as on Key Accounting Areas: An Assessment

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 4, October 2017, pp. 35-43

Posted: 8 Mar 2019

Kshema Shrivastava

Independent

D.D. Bedia

Vikram University

Date Written: February 18, 2019

Abstract

In the scenario of economic and financial globalization where the countries around the world are moving towards adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as their financial reporting language, India could not cocoon itself from this phenomenon occurring globally. Accordingly, India resolved to converge Indian Accounting Standards with IFRS at the G20 Summit in 2009. Consequentially, a new set of reporting standards known as Ind AS were issued by Accounting Standards Board (ASB) in India. Ind AS or Indian Accounting Standards converged with IFRS have now become the new accounting standards applicable for preparation of financial information by Indian companies. This study discusses how in a phase-wise manner, Ind AS will be implemented and explores the impact of Ind AS transition on selected key accounting areas.

Suggested Citation:

Shrivastava, Kshema and Bedia, D.D., The Impact of Transition to Ind as on Key Accounting Areas: An Assessment (February 18, 2019). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 4, October 2017, pp. 35-43, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3336432
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
878
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies