Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Social Construction of Accounting Reality: Translation of a Principles-Based Discourse

40 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2019 Last revised: 7 Jun 2021

Masatsugu Sanada

Kyoto Tachibana University

Date Written: June 4, 2021

Abstract

Purpose—Applying the concept of translation, this study aims to develop an understanding of how the principles-based discourse emerged and became rule-like social facts and thus constructed an accounting reality in a particular regulatory space.

Design/methodology/approach—This study focuses on various stakeholders’ discourses. The material and analysis presented in this paper derive from an extensive review of congressional documents, official reports, consultation documents, comment letters, and a range of additional information available on the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) web pages, as well as related academic papers.

Findings—The “principles-based” concept was originally introduced to describe the features of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), in contrast with the “rules-based” concept. Through the principles-based versus rules-based debate in the early 2000s, the following accounting reality was temporarily constructed: IFRS is principles-based and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) rules-based, and the principles-based accounting standards (PBAS) are more relevant and useful in decision-making. That is, the principles-based discourse and its recurring narrative provided a rational account and moral basis for a comparative advantage of IFRS.

Originality/value—In line with the existing discourse-related accounting literature, this study focuses on the principles-based discourse and analyzes its critical roles in the process of accounting change. It also shows how the US SEC and the FASB played essential roles in the translation process that constructed the US accounting reality. Furthermore, this historical case sheds light on how local actors react to changes and shows how scandals, a historical contingency, became an impetus for accounting changes.


Keywords: IFRS, Accounting Reality, Principles-Based Discourse, Translation

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Sanada, Masatsugu, The Social Construction of Accounting Reality: Translation of a Principles-Based Discourse (June 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3336036 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3336036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , Tsakumis G T
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: the influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Alexander
A benchmark for the adequacy of published financial statements
Accounting and Business Research , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 239 - 253 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Alexander , Jermakowicz , E
A true and fair view of the principles/rules debate
Abacus , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 132 - 164 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Alon , P D Dwyer
SEC's acceptance of IFRS-based financial reporting: An examination based in institutional theory
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 48 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
515
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,586
RANK
125,115
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies