Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS-Local GAAP Reconciliation Statements and Accounting Information Quality

13 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2019 Last revised: 26 Mar 2019

Muhammad Shahin Miah

Coventry University; University of Dhaka

Date Written: February 26, 2019

Abstract

The main objective of this paper is to investigate the quantitative impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on accounting components. IFRS 1 requires IFRS adopter firms to prepare comparative information under IFRS and under local GAAP, which is termed as IFRS-Local GAAP (e.g., IFRS-UK GAAP for the UK) reconciliation statement. This statement shows every accounting line item (in all financial statements) under two accounting systems for the same accounting period, which helps us to know the differences between local GAAP and IFRS. Analysing 1153 Australian listed firms’ reconciliation statements, this study documents that investment value is 35.38 percent higher in IFRS relating to investment value under local GAAP. Financial assets are shown 28.48 percent higher in IFRS relating to financial assets under local GAAP; goodwill is valued 22.60 percent higher in IFRS relating to goodwill value under local GAAP. On the other hand, retained earnings decrease by 23.3 percent under IFRS compared to retained earnings under local GAAP. More importantly, net income increases by 5.64 percent under IFRS compared to those under local GAAP. The findings of this study suggest that IFRS affects significantly accounting components which indicates the value relevance of IFRS. In addition, this study shows the importance of understanding the differences between local accounting standards and international accounting standards. This study will also be beneficial for investors, decision makers, preparers of financial statements, and other users of accounting information. More importantly, this study will be useful to those countries planning to adopt or in the process of adopting international accounting standards (e.g., Indonesia, Japan).

Keywords: IFRS-Local GAAP reconciliation, Accounting Standards, IFRS, Information Quality, Complexity, Earnings Quality

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Miah, Muhammad Shahin, IFRS-Local GAAP Reconciliation Statements and Accounting Information Quality (February 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3342150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3342150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
E Amir , T S Harris , E K Venuti
A Comparison of the Value-Relevance of U.S. Versus Non-U.S. GAAP Accounting Measures Using Form 20-F Reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
F Ball , J Tyler , P Wells
Is audit quality impacted by auditor relationships
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 166 - 181 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
485
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,309
RANK
134,537
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies