Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Analysis of Integrated Reporting in Ten Countries

43 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2019 Last revised: 8 Oct 2020

Robert G. Eccles

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Michael P. Krzus

Independent

Carlos Solano

Materiality Consulting

Date Written: March 2, 2019

Abstract

The first integrated reports were published in the early 2000’s by corporate pioneers determined to provide information that would improve their shareholders’ and stakeholders’ understanding of the company. The International Integrated Reporting Framework was released in December 2013 to provide organizations with guidance on the content of an integrated report. This paper explores that extent to which companies around the world are using the framework to prepare their reports and whether country-to-country differences exist in the content and quality of integrated reports. The authors selected five companies from each of the following countries: Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, South Africa, South Korea, United Kingdom, and the United States for the study. A 0-3 scale was used to evaluate five areas of disclosure — Materiality, Risks and opportunities, Strategy and resource allocation, Performance, and Outlook. We found that countries could be fairly clearly grouped into three categories of qualities of disclosure: High (Germany, the Netherlands, and South Africa), Medium (France, Italy, South Korea, and the United Kingdom), and Low (Brazil, Japan, and the United States). We provide some preliminary views on the reasons for these differences.

Keywords: integrated reporting, materiality, outlook, performance, risks and opportunities, strategy and resource allocation

Suggested Citation:

Eccles, Robert G. and Krzus, Michael P. and Solano, Carlos, A Comparative Analysis of Integrated Reporting in Ten Countries (March 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3345590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3345590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,612
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,616
RANK
4,829
36 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies