Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing: The Implementation of BEPS In India and China

In E-Book “A Compendium of Ideas & Perspectives on Sustainable Development Goals”, Ed. Nilam Panchal, B. K. School of Professional and Management Studies, Gujarat University, Ahmedabad, India, pp. 244 – 253, 2019, ISBN: 978-93-86644-50-3

10 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2019

Pawan K. Chugan

Nirma University - Institute of Management; AIIM - Ahmedabad; SPM - PDPU

Anuja Gupta

Nirma University - Institute of Management, Students

Date Written: February 1, 2019

Abstract

Ever since the transfer pricing rules introduced in India and China they have undergone various updates based upon the requirements and need of countries and trade organisations. Concepts of the APA and SHRs have also been incorporated in their transfer pricing legislations and both countries have been assiduously implementing the transfer pricing related updated rules in order to encourage the FDI. With the increase in tax evasion incidences by multinational companies, OECD and G20 countries have come up with 15 Base Erosion & Profit Shifting (BEPS) Actions in 2015. Both India and China, have also very recently started implementing the BEPS system. In this direction, an attempt has been made in this paper first to explain the relevant concepts and then underscore the BEPS actions implementation by India and China.

Note: This paper was presented at the 4th international Youth Symposium (iNYS) organised by the B. K. School of Professional and Management Studies, Gujarat University, Ahmedabad during Feb. 1-3, 2019 and was published in its reading book titled as “A Compendium of Ideas & Perspectives on Sustainable Development”. Paper has been uploaded with the permission of the Publishers.

Keywords: BEPS, Transfer Pricing, Tax Payers, Tax Base Erosion, Profit Shifting

JEL Classification: E62, F21, F23, H2, H32, H87

Suggested Citation:

Chugan, Pawan Kumar and Gupta, Anuja, Transfer Pricing: The Implementation of BEPS In India and China (February 1, 2019). In E-Book “A Compendium of Ideas & Perspectives on Sustainable Development Goals”, Ed. Nilam Panchal, B. K. School of Professional and Management Studies, Gujarat University, Ahmedabad, India, pp. 244 – 253, 2019, ISBN: 978-93-86644-50-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3347702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,537
RANK
271,971
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies