Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Failing Faithful Representations of Financial Statements: Issues in Reporting Financial Instruments

Abdel-Khalik, A. Rashad, Failing Faithful Representations of Financial Statements: Issues in Reporting Financial Instruments (October 2, 2019).

33 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2019 Last revised: 4 Mar 2020

A. Rashad Abdel-Khalik

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: March 21, 2019

Abstract

Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3357733

Both the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and the codified accounting standards (ASC) for the US GAAP categorize hedging relationships as falling into several buckets. The two buckets of relevance in this paper are (a) hedging the volatility of fair values, and (b) hedging the volatility of future cash flow. In this paper, I argue that at least three accounting treatments of derivatives and hedging lead to creating serious distortion of reporting actual transactions, to combining hard and plastic valuations, and to violating adherence to the principle of “faithful representation.” The three accounting treatments are as follows: (1) Creating the fictional Hypothetical Derivatives Method. (2) Allowing for the establishment of purely discretionary valuation adjustments for all of OTC derivative assets (Credit Valuation Adjustment) and liabilities (Debt Valuation Adjustment) without any guides or constraints. (3) Requiring subjective metaphysical separation of embedded derivatives with the main guide being the management’s own perception of the instrument’s embodiment of unrelated value and risk generators. To remedy the resulting distortion in financial reporting, significant revisions of certain accounting standards are sorely needed.


Keywords: OTC Derivatives; Hypothetical Derivatives; Embedded Derivatives; CVA and DVA

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Abdel-Khalik, A. Rashad, Failing Faithful Representations of Financial Statements: Issues in Reporting Financial Instruments (March 21, 2019). Abdel-Khalik, A. Rashad, Failing Faithful Representations of Financial Statements: Issues in Reporting Financial Instruments (October 2, 2019). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3357733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3357733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
552,835
1 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies