Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Breaking it Down: Economic Consequences of Disaggregated Cost Disclosures

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 19-23

Management Science, Forthcoming

88 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2019 Last revised: 21 Jan 2024

Philip G. Berger

University of Chicago - Chookaszian Accounting Research Center

Jung Ho Choi

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Sorabh Tomar

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Date Written: August 21, 2022

Abstract

Motivated by the FASB’s project on the disaggregation of income statement expenses, we study a Korean rule change that allowed firms to withhold a previously mandated disaggregation of Cost of Sales (CoS). We find that after withholding, firms’ profitability increases by 1.6 percentage points. Our industry-focused results suggest that withholding affects profitability by reducing the transfer of competitive information to peer firms. We then document a range of evidence consistent with the idea that firms withhold disaggregated CoS to protect cost-innovations from rivals. First, we construct a novel measure of firms’ cost innovative potential and show that it predicts withholding and subsequent profitability gains under the voluntary disclosure regime. Second, we document efficiency gains following the withholding of disaggregated CoS. Third, our survey-experiment of 1,257 US public firms’ managers shows that they would reduce investments in process/cost innovations if they were required to disaggregate CoS. Our study highlights to standard setters and academics that CoS disaggregation entails operational consequences for firms.

Keywords: Competition, Cost innovation, Cost structure, Disaggregated cost disclosure, Performance, Performance dispersion, Proprietary costs, Voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: D40, D80, L15, M40

Suggested Citation:

Berger, Philip G. and Choi, Jung Ho and Tomar, Sorabh, Breaking it Down: Economic Consequences of Disaggregated Cost Disclosures (August 21, 2022). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 19-23, Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3358435 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3358435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
Yang Ajunews
Are Analysts Forecasts 'Inaccurate'?
Because of Withholding Manufacturing Cost Reports Posted: 2012-12-20
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
J. Account. Econ , volume 58 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
J J Anton , D A Yao
Little Patents and Big Secrets: Managing Intellectual Property
RAND J. Econ , volume 35 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2004
S Athey , A Schmutzler
Product and Process Flexibility in an Innovative Environment
RAND J. Econ , volume 26 , p. 557 - 574 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
879
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,876
RANK
62,650
19 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies