Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Reporting Opacity on Trading Opacity: New Evidence from ADR Trades in Dark Pools

Pace University Finance Research Paper No. 2019/01

54 Pages Posted: 7 May 2019 Last revised: 6 Jun 2022

Thomas J. Boulton

Miami University

Marcus V. Braga-Alves

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Bidisha Chakrabarty

Saint Louis University - Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business

Date Written: March 25, 2019

Abstract

We examine how a firm’s reporting opacity affects its dark pool trading. Exploiting the exogenous variation in home-country reporting opacity in a sample of ADRs and using multiple metrics for reporting opacity, we find that greater opacity associates with increased dark pool trading. This relation holds after controlling for firms’ information environments, country specific governance issues, observable differences between ADRs and other securities that trade in dark pools (matched sample analysis), volume migration to dark pools during earnings announcements, informed trading in lit versus dark venues, ADR levels, IFRS reporting requirements, and the possible endogenous determination of home-country reporting opacity and dark pool volume. The positive relation is stronger for ADRs held by (quasi-indexing) institutions with low turnover and diversified holdings, and it is weaker for ADRs favored by (transient) institutions that trade frequently and (dedicated) institutions that hold concentrated portfolios. Bid-ask spreads are greater for higher opacity ADRs that trade in dark pools, indicating that reporting opacity is associated with the negative effect of dark pool trading on market quality.

Keywords: Reporting opacity; Dark pools; Disclosure; Earnings announcements; Informed trading

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Boulton, Thomas J. and Braga-Alves, Marcus V. and Chakrabarty, Bidisha, The Effect of Reporting Opacity on Trading Opacity: New Evidence from ADR Trades in Dark Pools (March 25, 2019). Pace University Finance Research Paper No. 2019/01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3359992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3359992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R Aggarwal , J Cao , F Chen
Information environment, dividend changes, and signaling: Evidence from ADR firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 403 - 431 Posted: 2012
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
J Bacidore , G Sofianos
Liquidity provision and specialist trading in NYSE-listed and non-U.S. stocks
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 133 - 158 Posted: 2002
T Balakrishnan , X Gkougkousi , W Landsman , P Taori
Dark market share around earnings announcements and speed of resolution of investor disagreement
The Accounting Review Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,471
RANK
394,952
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies