Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Organisational Change in Italian Local Governments: What's Beyond Managerial Fashion?

SDA BOCCONI, Research Division Working Paper No. 02-78

40 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2002

Laura Caccia

SDA Bocconi

Ileana Steccolini

SDA Bocconi; Bocconi University - Department of Policy Analysis and Public Management

Date Written: September 2002

Abstract

During the last decade Italian local governments have undergone a reform process, involving deep changes in their accounting system. The purpose of our longitudinal study is to analyse the development path of accounting tools in an Italian LG body over a decade and to answer the following research questions: how does interaction between accounting system and contextual factors develop over time? Is it possible to identify typical patterns of accounting renewal related to contextual factors? What is the role played by accounting systems in shaping the cultural and organisational change process? Does a significant gap exist between the 'declared' purpose and the actual effects of the change in managerial accounting systems?

The analysis of the case shows that changes in the accounting systems proceed in an incremental way but they are punctuated by radical and discontinuous events modifying their features. Radical changes are justified by external events, crisis and very often by law requirements. The latter, however, become an excuse to prompt a change that was already under preparation. The managerial approach to public sector, which has been fashionable over the last decade, is still strongly linked and influenced by the 'bureaucratic' one. Only when strongly supported by law and harsh contingencies, the managerial approach finds its actual application and its tools are actually used.

Keywords: local governement, accounting, organizational change, public sector reform

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, H72

Suggested Citation:

Caccia, Laura and Steccolini, Ileana and Steccolini, Ileana, Accounting and Organisational Change in Italian Local Governments: What's Beyond Managerial Fashion? (September 2002). SDA BOCCONI, Research Division Working Paper No. 02-78, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=336042 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.336042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Il disallineamento tra documenti contabili, struttura organizzativa e sistemi di gestione negli Enti locali Posted: 2000
Ileana Steccolini , Ileana Steccolini , Eugenio Anessi Pessina
Accruals Accounting in Italian Local Governments: Is it Working? Can it Work?
SDA BOCCONI, Research Division Working Paper No. 03-87 Pages: 23 Posted: 23 May 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Principi e sistemi aziendali per le amministrazioni pubbliche Posted: 1995
Burchell
The Roles of Accounting in Organisations and Society
Accounting, Organisations and Society , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,364
RANK
214,632
5 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Reform of the Italian Local Government Accounting System. A Critical Analysis

By Eugenio Caperchione

Accountability in the Public Sector: From Despair to Where?

By Enrico Bracci

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies