Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Earnings Management: The Role of Culture

Posted: 22 Apr 2019

Kevin C. K. Lam

Hang Seng Management College; The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Heibatollah Sami

Lehigh University

Jun Yao

Deakin University

Yiwei Yao

Independent

Date Written: April 2, 2019

Abstract

In this study, based on a sample of 14,892 firm-year observations for 3,242 firms from 23 countries that mandated IFRS adoption in 2005, we examine the role of culture in shaping how the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) has affected financial reporting quality. We examine four dimensions of national culture: trust, power distance, individualism, and uncertainty avoidance. Consistent with our predictions, we find that earnings management increases with IFRS adoption, and the increasing effect is more pronounced in countries with low trust, large power distance, and strong uncertainty avoidance after controlling for legal enforcement. These results imply that culture plays an important role in shaping accounting choices in a principles-based accounting standards regime.

Suggested Citation:

Lam, Kevin C. K. and Sami, Heibatollah and Yao, Jun Alex and Yao, Yiwei, Mandatory IFRS Adoption and Earnings Management: The Role of Culture (April 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3364200
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies