Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Carbon Dissemination on Cost of Equity

Business Strategy and the Environment, 2019

Posted: 6 May 2019

Mohammed Albarrak

University of Newcastle - Newcastle University Business School

Marwa Elnahass

Newcastle University Business School

Aly Salama

University of Newcastle - Newcastle University Business School

Date Written: February 26, 2019

Abstract

This study examines whether firms can influence their cost of equity (COE) by broadly disseminating their carbon information over Twitter. We study firms’ dissemination decisions of carbon information by developing a comprehensive measure of carbon information that a firm makes on Twitter, referred to as iCarbon. Using a sample of 1,737 firm-year observations for 584 non-financial firms with a Twitter account and listed on the US NASDAQ stock exchange over the period 2009-2015, we find that iCarbon is significantly and negatively associated with COE. Our results are consistent after determining the effect of Bloomberg's environmental (ENV) and environmental-social-governance (ESG) disclosure. The findings also hold when using alternative measures of COE and iCarbon.

Keywords: Dissemination; Carbon emissions; Climate change; Cost of equity; Legitimacy theory; Twitter

JEL Classification: G01, G32, G34, L20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Albarrak, Mohammed and Elnahass, Marwa and Salama, Aly, The Effect of Carbon Dissemination on Cost of Equity (February 26, 2019). Business Strategy and the Environment, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3371221
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
364
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies