Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency vs. Comparability: The Impact of Accounting Standards on Foreign Direct Investment

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 3373339

33 Pages Posted: 16 May 2019

Gregory Sabin

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: February 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the roles comparability and transparency play in the relation between IFRS adoption and foreign direct investment (FDI). In this study, I disentangle the impact of transparency and comparability through the use of a natural experiment resulting from Mexico’s adoption of IFRS in 2012. Greater comparability (adoption of IFRS by both domestic and foreign parties), controlling for transparency (adoption of IFRS by Mexico), increases FDI inflows as reported in column 5 in Table 4. Individually, greater transparency and comparability have been associated with increases in investment activity. However, it is unclear from the existing literature how transparency and comparability interact in the FDI setting. Consistent with prior findings, I find the adoption of IFRS is associated with increases in inbound foreign direct investment. This paper contributes to the literature on IFRS and FDI, specifically with respect to the role of common financial standards in increasing foreign investment activity.

Suggested Citation:

Sabin, Gregory, Transparency vs. Comparability: The Impact of Accounting Standards on Foreign Direct Investment (February 2019). Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 3373339, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3373339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3373339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
D Amiram
Financial information globalization and foreign investment decisions
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 81 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J E Anderson
A theoretical foundation for the gravity equation
The American Economic Review , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 106 - 116 Posted: 1979
J E Anderson , E Van Wincoop
Gravity with gravitas: a solution to the border puzzle. the american economic review , volume 93 , p. 170 - 192 Posted: 2003
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe. The accounting review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,794
RANK
243,680
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies