Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants of Capital Structure: Evidence From the Hotel Sector in Sri Lanka

37 Pages Posted: 17 May 2019

Dimuthu Arachchi

Independent

Date Written: April 28, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the factors affecting capital structure decisions of listed hotel companies in the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). Different classical capital structure theories are reviewed such as Modigliani and Miller Model (M & M Theory), trade-off theory (TOT) and pecking order theory (POT) to formulate testable propositions concerning the determinants of debt levels of the companies. The model is estimated using a panel data approach for twenty-five CSE companies for the period of 2009-2015. Regression models were used to test variables representing growth opportunities, firm size, profitability, effective tax rate, operational risk, tangibility and net commercial credit position. The findings suggest that profitability, growth opportunities, and net commercial credit position are related negatively to the debt ratio, while firm size, tangibility, operational risk and effective tax rate do not appear to be related to the debt ratio. Although the findings partially support both the pecking order theory (POT) and trade-off theory (TOT), neither the trade-off nor the pecking order theory exactly seems to explain the capital structure of Sri Lankan hotel companies.

Keywords: Capital Structure, Evidence, Hotel Sector, Sri Lanka

Suggested Citation:

Arachchi, Dimuthu, The Determinants of Capital Structure: Evidence From the Hotel Sector in Sri Lanka (April 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3379177 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3379177
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
J Abor
The effect of capital structure on Profitability: an empirical analysis of listed firms in Ghana
The Journal of Risk Finance , volume 6 , issue 5 , p. 438 - 445 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Akhtar
The determinants of capital structure for Australian multinational and Domestic corporations
Australian Journal of Management , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 321 - 362 Posted: 2005
Crossref
G A Bokpin
Macroeconomic development and capital structure decisions of firms: Evidence from emerging market economies
Studies in Economics and Finance , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 142 Posted: 2009
E F Brigham , M C Ehrhardt
Financial Management, Text and Cases Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
973
RANK
499,164
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies