Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Valuations of Bargain Purchase Gains: Are These True Gains under IFRS?

Forthcoming, Accounting and Business Research

49 Pages Posted: 28 May 2019

Marwa Elnahass

Newcastle University Business School

Leonidas C. Doukakis

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 30, 2019

Abstract

This study investigates stock market valuations for bargain purchase gains (BPGs) in the context of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) between 2005–2014. Motivated by the increased frequency and high concentration of BPGs in Europe, we study a sample of acquirers listed on the London Stock Exchange to assess the value relevance of BPGs (a) under discrepant disclosure practices (i.e., disclosure versus non- disclosure of the reasons for the gains), (b) before and after the revision of IFRS 3, and (c) considering different income classifications for BPGs (operating or non-operating earnings). BPGs, on average, are not significantly valued by the stock market. However, the post-IFRS 3 revision period, marked by stricter measurement criteria and additional disclosure requirements, witnessed a significant shift in firm valuations. BPGs for which the reason for the gain is disclosed are positively valued only in the post-IFRS 3 revision period. BPGs are consistently perceived as value irrelevant for those firms which fail to comply with mandated IFRS 3 disclosure requirements regarding the reason for the gain. Finally, BPGs classified as a component of non-operating income with sufficient note disclosure on the reason for the gain are significantly associated with prices and returns.

Keywords: Bargain purchase gains; Negative goodwill; IFRS 3 revision; Accounting disclosure; Value relevance

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Elnahass, Marwa and Doukakis, Leonidas C., Market Valuations of Bargain Purchase Gains: Are These True Gains under IFRS? (April 30, 2019). Forthcoming, Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3380591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3380591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,263
RANK
449,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies