Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Cooperation Between Securities Regulators

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 20 May 2019 Last revised: 12 Feb 2020

Roger Silvers

University of Utah; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: May 2, 2019

Abstract

The events of September 11, 2001, prompted sweeping cross-border coordination efforts for securities regulators around the globe. After 9/11, the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) forged a nonbinding arrangement—the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding Concerning Consultation and Cooperation and the Exchange of Information (MMoU)—that standardized the protocol for information sharing among participating securities regulators. Because regulators from different countries entered the MMoU at different times, their enlistments created a set of staggered shocks. I use these shocks to show that the resulting cross-border cooperation (a) increases cross-border enforcement and (b) reduces the cost of liquidity provision in the capital markets of participating countries. These results support the conclusion that the MMoU helps fill gaps in cross-border regulation that historically exposed investors to information asymmetry, agency costs, and expropriation risks.

Keywords: cross border, information sharing, networks, regulatory cooperation, enforcement

JEL Classification: K22, G38, F22, F23, F59, M48

Suggested Citation:

Silvers, Roger, Cross-Border Cooperation Between Securities Regulators (May 2, 2019). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3381887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3381887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
J Austin
IOSCO'S Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding Concerning Consultation, Cooperation and the Exchange of Information-A model for international regulatory convergence?
Criminal Law Forum , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 393 - 423 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Protecting Market Integrity in an Era of Fragmentation and Cross-Border Trading
Ottawa Law Review , volume 46 , p. 25 - 62 Posted: 2014
K.-H Bae , R Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Bafin
Annual Report. Available Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,749
RANK
362,814
3 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Public International Law: Foreign Relations & Policy Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies