Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why is IFRS Not a Good Starting Point for a Tax Base?

32 Pages Posted: 30 May 2019

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Date Written: May 5, 2019

Abstract

This article discusses whether IAS/IFRS should be used as a starting point in the context of the Common Corporate Tax Base in the European Union. Non-European countries may also have an interest in the analysis on the use of IFRS to compute the corporate tax base, as well. After a background discussion on the application of IAS/IFRS as the start point for a tax base, some principles of tax bases are analyzed. Additionally, the disadvantages and advantages of using IAS/IFRS as the start point are presented. In the end, the creation of an independent tax accounting framework is recommended, which should have as the primary purpose taxation, and taxpayers and governments as the users of the information. In this new arena, the IAS/IFRS should be a valuable toolbox of concepts that can be adjusted for a tax perspective.

Keywords: Common Corporate Tax Base, IFRS, Tax Principles, Tax Accounting

JEL Classification: K34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo, Why is IFRS Not a Good Starting Point for a Tax Base? (May 5, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3383061 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3383061
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Eberhartinger Eva , &quot; Ias/Ifrs Und , Maßgeblichkeit
Handbuch des Bilanzsteuerrechts: Gedenkschrift für Wolfgang Gassner , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Essers Peter
The precious relationship between IAS/IFRS and CCCTB with respect to with respect to Provisions and Liabilities , p. 392 - 393 Posted: 2008
Nina References Aguiar
Tributación y contabilidad internacional, alineación de sus bases
Derecho Aduanero y Comercio Exterior , p. 69 - 95 Posted: 2016
Aguiar Nina
Do commercial accounts and the tax base have to be aligned
SSRN Electronic Journal, presented at the Max Planck European PosrDoctoral Conference on Tax Law Posted: 2011-11-21
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,466
RANK
321,490
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies