Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Wealthy Economies Have Better Accounting Quality? International Evidence

Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, 30 (2), 92-110, Forthcoming

23 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2019

Erekle Pirveli

Caucasus University

Jochen Zimmermann

University of Bremen - Chair of Accounting and Control; University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Date Written: May 9, 2019

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this article is to empirically test whether wealthy economies have better accounting quality (AQ) compared to their “poor” counterparts.

Design/methodology/approach: To test the formulated hypothesis, this article examines accounting and market data of 40 countries' capital markets, obtained from Compustat Global and Compustat North America, and spanned throughout the last quarter of century, from 1992 to 2016. Country wealth and controlling- and valuation-usefulness of accounting information are proxied by gross domestic product per capita, conditional accounting conservatism and value relevance of earnings and book values, respectively.

Findings: Descriptive analysis, consistent with the prior literature, reveals that controlling-usefulness and valuation-usefulness of accounting information significantly negatively correlate with each other, putting them as alternative (rather than compatible) objectives of the accounting system. The major finding shows that wealthy economies report significantly more controlling-useful but about equally valuation-useful accounting information compared to their poor counterparts.

Practical implications: The findings are interesting from investors as well as standard setters' perspective.

Originality/value: According to Ball (Journal of International Accounting Research (2016), 15(2), 1–6), wealthy economies are likely to invest more in the establishment and development of a country-level reporting infrastructure such as accounting, financial, legal and political systems, which should ultimately lead to better AQ. This article argues that wealthy economies are likely to report more controlling-useful, but not necessarily more valuation-useful accounting information compared to the poor ones. This argument is based on the fact that on the one hand decision makers within the wealthy economies' capital markets are likely to intensively utilize various alternative sources of information, implying a lower demand on accounting information as a source of valuation decisions. On the other hand, demand for controlling-useful accounting information would exist even while utilizing other (external) sources of information as the inside (managerial) information helps the management to efficiently control and plan the firm activities.

Keywords: accounting conservatism, accounting quality, country wealth, country-level determinants of financial reporting, earnings quality, financial reporting infrastructure, value relevance of earnings and book values

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pirveli, Erekle and Zimmermann, Jochen and Zimmermann, Jochen, Do Wealthy Economies Have Better Accounting Quality? International Evidence (May 9, 2019). Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, 30 (2), 92-110, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
N Ashari , H C Koh , S L Tan , W H Wong
Factors Affecting Income Smoothing among Listed Companies in Singapore
Accounting and business research , volume 24 , issue 96 , p. 291 - 301 Posted: 1994
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The Discovery and Reporting of Internal Control Deficiencies Prior to Sox-Mandated Audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Balachandran , P Mohanram
Is the Decline in the Value Relevance of Accounting Driven by Increased Conservatism?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 272 - 301 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
868
RANK
785,592
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies