Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Diversification on Tax Aggressiveness in Brazilian Companies

24 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2019

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Aline Maioli Rodrigues

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 10, 2019

Abstract

This research aims to verify whether firms that operate in several different business sectors are more tax aggressive in comparison to firms that operate in a single or a few segments. The study analyzes a sample of 4,280 firms/year, listed in the Brazilian stock exchange B3 in the period from 2010 to 2017. It was observed that most of the companies operate in one or two business segments. To verify the existence of a relationship between diversification and tax aggressiveness, we used a multiple linear regression model with fixed effect panel data for firm and year. Also, we used the logit model with binary response for the explanatory variable. Two measurements of tax aggressiveness were applied, the ETR (effective tax rate) and the ETR LONG (long-run effective tax rates). This type of research is an innovation in Brazil, not yet explored in the literature. The results showed that more diversified firms are more likely to be tax aggressive, in comparison to single-segment firms. Therefore, the results indicate that among Brazilian listed companies, there is a positive relationship between the number of segments in which they are listed and the level of tax aggressiveness. Among the main contributions of the research, we emphasize the better understanding of the phenomenon of tax aggressiveness, its causes and determinants, implications for information users (particularly tax regulators), and implications for the management that identifies a possible tax advantage in corporate diversification.

Keywords: Tax aggressiveness; Corporate diversification; Single-segment

JEL Classification: M40, K34

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Rodrigues, Aline Maioli, The Effect of Corporate Diversification on Tax Aggressiveness in Brazilian Companies (May 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3386433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3386433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Why do managers diversify their firms? Agency reconsidered
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 118 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning Posted: 2012
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , J Blouin , W Guay
Tax Aggressiveness and Corporate Transparency
The Accounting Review Posted: 2018
Crossref
P G Berger , E Ofek
Diversification's effect on firm value
Journal of financial economics , volume 37 , issue 1 , p. 798 - 804 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,305
RANK
371,877
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies