Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Aggressiveness, Market and Idiosyncratic Risks in Brazil

23 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2019

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Welliton Botão Martins

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 11, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to analyze the relationship between tax aggressiveness and the risks associated with the variation of returns in Brazilian companies’ stock, particularly regarding the systematic and idiosyncratic risks. The sample was formed by companies that composed the IBOVESPA index in the period between 2011 to 2016. The measurements of tax aggressiveness were the effective tax rate and the temporary book-tax differences. The results showed a significant relationship between tax aggressiveness and risk, concluding that the higher the tax aggressiveness, the lower the beta and the higher the idiosyncratic risk. The finding for the direct relationship between tax aggressiveness and idiosyncratic risk is in line with the literature, reflecting the dispersion of probable returns due to tax deferral practices and associated tax risks. The inverse relationship between market risk and tax aggressiveness may represent a greater attractiveness for these stocks in investment portfolios that seek less exposure. Tax aggressive firms would behave as a hedge in a diversified portfolio because they are less sensitive to market variations. This study is essential because it maps the effect of tax aggressiveness on the financial risks related to Brazilian companies’ shares, as well as being useful to investors, portfolio and business managers.

Keywords: Tax aggressiveness; Market risk; Idiosyncratic risk

JEL Classification: K34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and Martins, Welliton Botão, Tax Aggressiveness, Market and Idiosyncratic Risks in Brazil (May 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3386718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3386718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A L G C Amorim , I S Lima , F D Murcia
Análise da relação entre as informações contábeis e o risco sistemático no mercado brasileiro
Revista Contabilidade & Finanças -USP , p. 199 - 211 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A L G C Amorim , I S Lima , T Júnior
Informação contábil e beta de mercado
Revista Universo Contábil , p. 128 - 143 Posted: 2014
R A M Araújo , Leite Filho , P A M Santos , L M S Câmara , R P B
Posted: 2018
Agressividade fiscal: uma comparação entre empresas listadas na NYSE e BM&FBOVESPA. Enfoque: Reflexão Contábil , p. 39 - 54
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,076
RANK
636,031
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies