Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Brazilian Publicly Traded Companies That Pay Less Tax Create More Jobs?

19 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2019

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Raimundo da Silva

FUCAPE Business School

Date Written: May 11, 2019

Abstract

This article studies whether there is an association between effective tax rate and job creation in private companies, based on a tax accounting perspective. In macroeconomic terms, there is a widespread assumption – challenged by authors such as Anderson and Pizzigati (2017) – indicating that lower corporate taxation will lead to higher rates of job creation. The study explores the relationship between job creation and three proxies of tax avoidance, or tax aggressiveness, in Brazilian non-financial firms listed in the country’s stock exchange B3, in the period between 2011 and 2016. The estimates were conducted using the methods of ordinary least squares (OLS), and quantile regression. The results obtained from the estimates using OLS did not present significant evidence of an association between the rate of job creation and effective tax rates. Regarding the method of quantile regressions, it was possible to find a significant and positive relationship between job creation and effective tax rates, exclusively in quantile 25 of the effective tax rate on value added. Quantiles 50 and 75 presented negative relationships between job creation and effective tax rates in the different tax aggressiveness metrics. The results suggest that the firm’s tax aggressiveness profile influences the relationship. While in the less tax aggressive companies the reduction of the tax burden would potentially stimulate job creation, in those more tax aggressive the tax break may lead to the undesirable effect of a fall in job creation. This innovative and relevant study raises questions about the social efficiency of a general reduction of corporate taxes.

Keywords: Tax aggressiveness, Market risk, Idiosyncratic risk

JEL Classification: M4, K34

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo and da Silva, Raimundo, Do Brazilian Publicly Traded Companies That Pay Less Tax Create More Jobs? (May 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3386826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3386826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
S Anderson , S Pizzigati
Corporate tax cuts boost CEO pay, not jobs. Institute for Policy Studies Posted: 2017
J Blouin , L Krull
Bringing It Home: A Study of the Incentives Surrounding the Repatriation of Foreign Earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of
Journal of Accounting Research , issue 4 , p. 1027 - 1059 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J N Dixon , J Nassios
Modelling the impacts of a cut to company tax in Australia. Centre of Policy Studies Working Posted: 2016
L V Zamprogno , Jesus Filho , J Funchal , B
Proteção ao Credor, Sistema de Informação e o Desenvolvimento do Mercado de Crédito dos Países do Mercosul. Brazilian Business Review -BBR , p. 296 - 306 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,006
RANK
785,592
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies