Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information Quality of Latin America Firms: The Role of Regulatory Environment

Revista Evidenciação Contábil & Finanças, 2019

34 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2019

Cinthya Morais

Federal University of Ceara

Karla Vanessa Nogueira Maia Amorim

Centro Universitário Fanor Wyden

Dante Viana Jr.

Faculty of Economics, University of Algarve, Portugal

Sylvia Domingos

Federal University of Ceara

Vera Ponte

Universidade Federal do Ceará

Date Written: May 28, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to investigate the relationship between the regulatory environment and the quality of the accounting information of Latin America companies, specifically regarding earnings management through accruals. The study sample is comprised of companies listed on the main stock exchanges in Latin America (Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Peru), according to the availability of information in the Capital IQ database – the main data source for this study – and that adopted IFRS as the basis for preparing their financial statements in the period analyzed (2011 to 2016), thus totaling 2,360 firm-year observations. Considering the absolute value of discretionary accruals as proxy for earnings management, our results suggest a positive relationship between the regulatory environment and earnings management. Our results also indicate that the regulatory environment is positively related to the use of discretionary accruals for companies in Brazil, Peru, Mexico, and considering Latin America as a whole. For Chile, we don’t find any significant relationship between these factors, suggesting that there are aspects related to the country level, whether economic, cultural, or institutional, that were not mentioned by this study and that are possibly able to influence the use of discretionary accruals as a form of earnings management.

Keywords: Regulatory environment, information quality, earnings management, discretionary accruals, Latin America

Suggested Citation:

Morais, Cinthya and Nogueira Maia Amorim, Karla Vanessa and Viana Jr., Dante and Domingos, Sylvia and Ponte, Vera, Accounting Information Quality of Latin America Firms: The Role of Regulatory Environment (May 28, 2019). Revista Evidenciação Contábil & Finanças, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3395477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
951
RANK
541,990
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies