Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Cost and Management Accountant in Implementation of Six Sigma in Pharmaceuticals Industry — An Overview

The Management Accountant, Vol 45(11), 2010

Posted: 17 Jun 2019

Arindam Banerjee

J.D.Birla Institute (Department of Management)

Date Written: November 1, 2010

Abstract

This paper examines the challenges of competition and opportunities being faced by the Indian pharmaceutical industry in the present competitive global market. The major challenges are the new Patent Law that came into existence from 1st January 2005, insufficient investment in research and development, low FDI inflow in the pharma sector, tough market competition from leading multinational companies’ front, etc. In spite of these various types of challenges, the industry is contributing well in terms of the total volume of production, export and international market share. The major three components of pharmaceutical products are herbal products, formulation drugs, and bulk drugs, including fine chemicals. It also intends to highlight the role to be played by a Cost and Management Accountant in facing the present day’s challenges by the industry.

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Arindam, Role of Cost and Management Accountant in Implementation of Six Sigma in Pharmaceuticals Industry — An Overview (November 1, 2010). The Management Accountant, Vol 45(11), 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3400840
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
543
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies