Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Cost and Management Accountants in IFRS Regime

The Management Accountant,Vol 46(4), 2011

Posted: 17 Jun 2019

Arindam Banerjee

J.D.Birla Institute (Department of Management)

Date Written: April 1, 2011

Abstract

IFRS has today become a universal financial reporting language through which all the global companies are communicating with its global investors rather than having a divergent set of standards applied differently in different countries. Against this background the present article begins with the concept and background of IFRS. The article further highlights the evolution of management accounting and explores the changing role of Cost and Management Accountants (CMAs) in IFRS regime.

Suggested Citation:

Banerjee, Arindam, Role of Cost and Management Accountants in IFRS Regime (April 1, 2011). The Management Accountant,Vol 46(4), 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3400869
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
517
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies