Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Import Prices and Invoice Currency: Evidence From Chile

BIS Working Paper No. 784

42 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2019

Fernando Giuliano

World Bank

Emiliano Luttini

Chilean Budget Office

Date Written: June 4, 2019

Abstract

We use transaction-level customs data to document that a large majority of Chilean imports are invoiced in dollars regardless of country of origin and sector. We study the implications of this fact for the determination of exchange rate pass-through (ERPT) to border prices. We find that the special role of the dollar in international trade has real effects, but bilateral exchange rates with respect to exporter currencies also matter in the medium-term. In particular, exchange rate fluctuations against the dollar account for most of the ERPT in the short run and are still relevant after two years. However, the cumulative ERPT with respect to the exporter country's currency increases with time and after two years accounts for most of the ERPT to border prices.

Keywords: invoice currency, exchange rate pass-through

JEL Classification: F3, F4

Suggested Citation:

Giuliano, Fernando and Luttini, Emiliano, Import Prices and Invoice Currency: Evidence From Chile (June 4, 2019). BIS Working Paper No. 784, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3400777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
W Alterman
International Economic Transactions: Issues in Measurement and Empirical Research
New Data, New Insights, NBER Chapters , p. 109 - 143 Posted: 1991
M Amiti , O Itskhoki , J Konings
International Shocks, Variable Markups and Domestic Prices
Review of Economic Studies
Crossref
R Auer , A Burstein , S M Lein
Exchange rates and prices: evidence from the 2015 Swiss franc appreciation, BIS Working Papers 751, Bank for International Settlements Posted: 2018
D Berger , J Faust , J Rogers , K Steverson
Border Prices and Retail Prices
Journal of International Economics , volume 88 , p. 62 - 73 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
903
RANK
713,739
1 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies