Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dissemination of Firm Information via Company Register Websites: Country-Level Empirical Evidence

67 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2019

Devrimi Kaya

University of Erlangen-Nuremberg-Friedrich Alexander Universität Erlangen Nürnberg

Andreas Seebeck

Jacobs University Bremen

Date Written: June 14, 2019

Abstract

In response to current regulatory initiatives which aim to foster information acquisition and processing across countries, we develop an index model (CR-score) designed to capture the extent of regulated firm information disseminated via company register (CR) websites. In a unique sample of 137 countries, we find consistent evidence that countries with a relatively high level of Internet penetration, those that facilitate cross-border trading, and those with higher governance quality show higher CR-scores. Our findings are robust to several additional tests, including amendments of the index model, the independent variables, and the sample composition. The results are generally in line with theories of regulation and should be of particular interest to regulators and standard setters.

Keywords: company register, firm data dissemination, public interest, regulation, open data

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, G18

Suggested Citation:

Kaya, Devrimi and Seebeck, Andreas, The Dissemination of Firm Information via Company Register Websites: Country-Level Empirical Evidence (June 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3404089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3404089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A Alesina , E Spolaore , R Wacziarg
Trade, growth and the size of countries
Handbook of Economic Growth , p. 1499 - 1542 Posted: 2005
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , K M Johnstone , T D Warfield
Corporate reporting on the Internet , volume 13 , p. 241 - 257 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Asthana , S Balsam
The effect of EDGAR on the market reaction to 10-K filings
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 349 - 372 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Baldwin , M Cave , M Lodge
Understanding regulation: theory, strategy, and practice Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,492
RANK
545,548
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies