Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRSs Convergence and Expectation Gap: Vindication from Practitioners

Metamorphosis- A Journal of Management Research (Journal of Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, Forthcoming

Posted: 25 Jun 2019

Rajat Deb

Tripura University

Date Written: December 31, 2018

Abstract

The study has attempted to measure the Indian practitioners’ expectation gaps about IFRSs convergence. Based on literature, two hypotheses, a conceptual model and a questionnaire, have been formed. Through protocol interviews followed by a pretest, the questionnaire has been tested (reliability and validity) before conducting the online survey. A total of 159 sample responses has been assessed to measure the gaps on four major parameters. For assaying the gaps, the arithmetic and weighted arithmetic mean differences and paired sample t-test have been applied, which have indicated the likely persistence of gaps. The significant statistical results have indicated likely to reject the null hypotheses and it has to conclude that regulatory requirements have influenced in convergence and the Ind AS probably to improve the reporting practices, audit qualities and analysts’ forecasting. Study limitations, practical implications and roadmap for further research have also been indicated.

Keywords: Ind AS, Online Survey, Expectation Gap Measurements, Dependent Paired Sample T-test, Inferential Statistics

Suggested Citation:

Deb, Rajat, IFRSs Convergence and Expectation Gap: Vindication from Practitioners (December 31, 2018). Metamorphosis- A Journal of Management Research (Journal of Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3406856
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
550
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies