Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Management and Sustainable Profitability: First Bank of Nigeria Perspective

International Journal of Economics and Financial Research ISSN(e): 2411-9407, ISSN(p): 2413-8533 Vol. 5, Issue. 6, pp: 159-170, 2019

12 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2019

John Ugoani

Rhema Univeristy, Nigeria.

Date Written: June 21, 2019

Abstract

At the early stages the area now known as Nigeria was an agricultural economy which aroused the interest of early British it’s in Nigeria’s palm produce, cocoa, groundnuts, rubber and others that were shipped to Liverpool and returned to the country as finished goods. The British governments philosophy of dual mandate encouraged the Royal Niger Company with power to administer, make treaties, charge customs dues and carry on trade in all territories in the basin of the Niger River and it’s affluent. Ahead of the withdrawal of the Charter by the British government in 1900, British business people like Jones sought for an alternative platform to promote trade between British and the area now known as Nigeria by the establishment of BBWA on March 31, 1894, with its head office in Liverpool. The bank now known as FBN has passed through the rigours of effective international management in the past 125 years and remains one of the most profitable banking enterprises on the African Continent. In the process of international management the bank produced great managers including Mr. John Major who worked at Jos Main Branch in Nigeria and later became the Prime Minister of Great Britain. 115 people participated in the study conducted through the exploratory research design. Data gathered were analyzed through the descriptive and regression statistical methods and the result showed positive correlation between international management and sustainable profitability. However, further research could be conducted to supplement the present effort including an examination of the relationship between shareholders, worth and profit before taxation in public companies in Nigeria. On the basis of the result of the study it was a recommendation that companies seeking to play in the international environment must ensure that they have competent managers to drive organizational goals.

Keywords: Alfred Lewis Jones; Royal niger company; International management; Sustainable profitability; First bank of Nigeria plc

JEL Classification: M10, M12

Suggested Citation:

Ugoani, John, International Management and Sustainable Profitability: First Bank of Nigeria Perspective (June 21, 2019). International Journal of Economics and Financial Research ISSN(e): 2411-9407, ISSN(p): 2413-8533 Vol. 5, Issue. 6, pp: 159-170, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3407891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
N Aimkij , B G Mujtaba , T Kaweevisultrakul
Green management sustainability and its economic impact
Journal of Economics and Sustainability Development , volume 5 , issue 6 , p. 104 - 119 Posted: 2013
J M Ajekigbe
My vision for first bank. First banker, october Posted: 2004
J Alagbe
How to build great business in 2019
Westafrica Businessnews , volume 5 , issue 270 Posted: 2018
B Amadi
Listed Companies henceforth must publish sustainability
Report-NSE. Westafrica Businessnews , volume 5 , issue 270 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,055
RANK
741,983
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies