Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
MiFID II Unbundling and Sell Side Analyst Research

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2019 Last revised: 19 Jun 2023

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Jedson Pinto

University of Texas at Dallas

Edward Sul

George Washington University

Date Written: June 14, 2023

Abstract

We examine broad effects of MiFID II, which mandated unbundled pricing of analyst research in the European Union beginning in 2018. We find significant reductions in sell-side analyst following, particularly for firms for which the marginal analyst was less important (larger, older, less volatile firms with greater coverage and more accurate forecasts). High quality analysts (more accurate, experienced, and in positions of seniority) were more likely to leave the sell-side and move to the buy-side, while remaining sell-side analysts increased efforts to make their forecasts more informative (more accurate, more detailed, and more likely to include informative recommendations resulting in larger stock price responses). Firms responded to a loss of sell-side coverage with more frequent, forward-looking, and informative investor relations events, especially for firms that lost the most coverage. Our results support recent theoretical analysis predicting that unbundling had significant implications for sell-side research, buy-side research, and firm responses.

Keywords: Sponsored Research, MiFID II, Analyst Coverage

JEL Classification: G14, G18, G24, G29, M41, N44

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Mark H. and Pinto, Jedson and Sul, Edward, MiFID II Unbundling and Sell Side Analyst Research (June 14, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3408198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3408198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Does it all add up? Benchmarks and the compensation of active portfolio managers
The Journal of Business , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 350 Posted: 1997
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
R Bhushan
Firm characteristics and analyst following
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , issue 2-3 , p. 255 - 274 Posted: 1989
B Biffany
Fixing Soft Dollars Is Not That Hard: A Consent and Reporting Framework for Regulating Client Commission Arrangement
Duke LJ Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,706
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,242
RANK
23,834
22 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies