Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntarily IFRS Adoption by European Unlisted Firms: Impact on Earnings Quality and Cost of Debt

International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 2 Jul 2019

Mara Cameran

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Domenico Campa

International University of Monaco (IUM)

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of the voluntary adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by unlisted firms on both their financial reporting quality and on their cost of debt. Using a large international sample of unlisted EU companies where the choice of IFRS is voluntary, we find that IFRS adoption has a positive impact on financial reporting quality and results in a decrease in the cost of debt. In addition, unlisted firms adopting IFRS are more likely to be acquired or go public in the years subsequent to the adoption, relative to other unlisted firms. We document a tangible benefit of a voluntary IFRS adoption by unlisted firms.

Keywords: Voluntary IFRS Adoption, Unlisted Firms, Earnings Quality, Cost of Debt

Suggested Citation:

Cameran, Mara and Campa, Domenico, Voluntarily IFRS Adoption by European Unlisted Firms: Impact on Earnings Quality and Cost of Debt (July 1, 2019). International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3412972
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
874
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies