Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Power Distance, Political Uncertainty and Stock Price Crash Risk: International Evidence

Posted: 1 Jul 2019

Qiaoling Su

Xiamen University

Jianming Ye

Xiamen University

Xunchang Zhang

Jinan University

Date Written: September 1, 2016

Abstract

This paper tests the proposition that the unbalanced power distance (i.e., Hofstede Cultural Dimensions- Power Distance Index) and individual stock price crash risk. We examine the stock price behavior of 35 countries’ listed firms from 2004 to 2016 and use multivariate analyses to document that societal power distance is important in explaining the propensity of releasing accounting information. These propensities create a psychological hint on timing management, particularly for bad news. As countries with higher Power Distance (PD) prefer to keep things under control, the result will be fewer unexpected stock price crashes during the long windows. However, because the higher Power Distance countries devote the market to maintain temporary peace before and during the periods of political events (i.e., national elections), the results will be changed to an increase in crash risks after the political events window. Consistent with these predictions, we find that, in the higher PD countries, companies have less incentive to hide negative information and to generate stock price crashes. This situation is substantially changed during the post-political windows when the firms and the ways of spreading information are more controlled by the government. Our findings suggest that formal mechanism alone is insufficient to explain the behaviors of corporate disclosure that entangle with informal instruments.

Keywords: culture, power distance, political uncertainty, crash risk

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15

Suggested Citation:

Su, Qiaoling and Ye, Jianming and Zhang, Xunchang, Power Distance, Political Uncertainty and Stock Price Crash Risk: International Evidence (September 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3412597
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
721
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies