Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS Adoption on Earnings Management - Results from Canada

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2 No.3, 2019

16 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2019

Kousay Said

Fanshawe College - Lawrence Kinlin School of Business

Date Written: July 8, 2019

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to find out the impact of the adoption of IFRS on the practice of earnings management. It provides empirical results using panel data from 2000 to 2018 of the 19,869 firm-year observations of available data from 791 Canadian firms based on the Modified Jones model. The result of our study supports that there is the existence of earnings management practice. The overall result was negative but not significant suggesting adopting IFRS has no direct influence on earnings management used among publicly listed firms. In addition, this paper examined the influence of firm factors (independent variables) of leverage, return on assets, and enrings growth, the interaction variables of IFRS adoption on earnings management. Obtained results in this paper indicate the interaction variable of IFRS adoption is positively related with earnings management, but not significant, suggesting that adopting IFRS has no direct influence on earnings management used among publicly listed firms.

Keywords: Discretionary accruals (DACC), Earnings management (AM), Return on assets (ROA), Leverage (LEV), Delta earnings before interest, and taxes (∆EBIT)

Suggested Citation:

Said, Kousay, The Impact of IFRS Adoption on Earnings Management - Results from Canada (July 8, 2019). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2 No.3, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3416059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
M Blanchette
IFRS in Canada: evolution or revolution? CMA Management: May Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA). 2009. The CICA's Guide to IFRS in Canada Posted: 2007
V Beattie , K Edwards , A Goodacre
The impact of constructive operating lease capitalization on key accounting rations
Accounting and Business Research , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 233 - 254 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Burgstahler , I M Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 99 , p. 99 - 125 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Callao , J I Jarne
Have IFRS affected earnings management in the European Union? Accounting in
Europe , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 189 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
582
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,754
RANK
107,325
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies