Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) on Value Relevance of Accounting Information

57 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2019

Osamwonyi Ohonba

Edo University

Date Written: July 11, 2019

Abstract

The broad objective of this research was to empirically examine the effect of IFRS on value relevance of accounting information. This study employs a longitudinal panel research design. The population of this study covers all quoted banks listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. As at the study period, there were only 15 quoted banks on the Nigerian Stock Exchange and this also forms the sample for the study. Secondary data was been used for this study. The data was retrieved from corporate annual reports of the sampled banks for 2010-2017 financial years. The researcher utilizes only corporate annual reports because they are readily available, accessible and also provides a greater potential for comparability of results. More so, they are produced annually and kept in public sphere. The Ordinary least square regression (OLS) was used for the data analysis. The study findings revealed that while IFRS adoption has a statistically significant influence on Earnings per share and Dividend per share value relevance; it has no statistically significant influence on Book value per share value relevance. The study recommends that investors and indeed users of accounting information should still be confident in relying on accounting information prepared by corporate entities in making investment decisions. The study recommends that there is need for companies to comply fully with all IFRS standards in the preparation of financial reports since IFRS adoption was found to have positive effects on value relevance.

Suggested Citation:

Ohonba, Osamwonyi, Effects of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) on Value Relevance of Accounting Information (July 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3418221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3418221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
177 References
N Abayadeera
Value relevance of information in Hi-tech industries in Australia: Accounting information and intangible asset disclosures
Global Review of Accounting and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 99 Posted: 2010
B Y Abiodun
Significance of accounting information on corporate values
Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 105 - 113 Posted: 2012
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Measuring value relevance in a (possibly) inefficient market
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 965 - 986 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Abubakar
Value relevance of accounting information of listed new economy firms in Nigeria: An empirical investigation using Ohlson Model. PhD dissertation submitted to the Department of Accounting, Faculty of Administration Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
562
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,611
RANK
112,247
177 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies