Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption and Within-Jurisdiction Comparability: Evidence from Chinese Dual-Class Firms

Posted: 16 Jul 2019

Jenny Guan

Monash University

Kangtao Ye

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Shanshan Zhang

Beijing Jiaotong University

Xiao-Jun Zhang

University of California, Berkeley; China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR)

Date Written: July 15, 2019

Abstract

We analyze a unique set of Chinese firms to isolate the effect of accounting standards on within-jurisdiction comparability. A sample of Chinese firms simultaneously maintain two sets of financial statements over the period of 2001-2006 because of their dual-class share structure: statements for A-shares follow Chinese GAAP and those for B-shares follow IFRS. We find a disparity in within-jurisdiction accounting comparability between these two sets of accounting standards: IFRS produces less comparable information within jurisdiction than does Chinese GAAP. We also find that the disparity in comparability is related to fair value accounting, especially when corporate governance is weak. Further, we find that comparability disparity incurs capital market consequence. Disparity in comparability is associated with the differences in stock price and liquidity between A- and B-shares. Our study has implications for the effects of IFRS adoption on overall comparability in general and within-jurisdiction comparability in particular. Our study suggests that a country has to trade off the loss from impaired within-jurisdiction comparability against the benefit from enhanced cross-jurisdiction comparability when considering IFRS adoption.

Keywords: IFRS Adoption; Within-Jurisdiction Comparability; Capital Market Performance

JEL Classification: M41; G12

Suggested Citation:

Guan, Jenny and Ye, Kangtao and Zhang, Shanshan and Zhang, Xiao-Jun, IFRS Adoption and Within-Jurisdiction Comparability: Evidence from Chinese Dual-Class Firms (July 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3419872
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,085
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies