Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Determinants on the Adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standard for the Small and Medium-Sized Entities (IFRS for SMEs)

Posted: 16 Jul 2019

Mourad Mroua

University of Sfax

amal kammoun

Independent

Date Written: July 15, 2019

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to analyze the cultural, economic and legal factors through the international accounting standard ‘IFRS for SMEs’ adoption for the Small and Medium- sized Entities. Based on a sample of 82 countries be they adopters and non-adopters of IFRS for SMEs, the results show a positive and significant effect of the Strength Investor Protection, power distance, and legal environment as well as a negative and significant effect of individualism, uncertainty, avoidance, and foreign market size on the IFRS adoption decision for the SMEs case. Nevertheless, masculinity, regulations of securities exchanges, efficacy corporate boards, strength audit and reporting standards reveal insignificant effect on the IFRS adoption decision. Our findings have implications on revising the IFRS for SMEs and will assist in addressing future complications in the IFRS _SMEs adoption decision process by considering cultural dimensions, economic, and legal factors affecting the decision. Besides, our results allow investors to have an idea about the specific environmental characteristics of the countries that have adopted the "IFRS_SME".

Keywords: IFRS vs. SMEs, cultural factors, institutional, SMEs, Legal Economic, Full IFRS adoption

Suggested Citation:

Mroua, Mourad and kammoun, amal, The Impact of Determinants on the Adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standard for the Small and Medium-Sized Entities (IFRS for SMEs) (July 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3420050
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
734
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies