Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Coverage Overlaps and Interfirm Information Spillovers

90 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2019 Last revised: 25 Jan 2022

Tim Martens

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Christoph J. Sextroh

Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg; Tilburg University - Tilburg School of Economics and Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 15, 2021

Abstract

We offer a novel perspective on the role of sell-side analysts as information intermediaries in capital markets by documenting a flow of information in a new direction, namely, from analysts to the firms they cover. We use analyst coverage overlaps and patent citations to examine analyst-induced information spillovers about technology and industry trends. Consistent with analyst coverage-related information flows, firms are more likely to cite another firm’s patent if that firm is covered by the same analyst. The effect varies with analysts’ specialization, experience, and level of activity. Firms with more analyst-based connections to peers also show greater corporate innovation. Collectively, our evidence indicates that financial analysts not only reduce information asymmetries between firms and capital market participants but also facilitate the production of business intelligence through feedback and interfirm information spillovers.

Keywords: Analysts; Coverage overlap; Feedback effect; Knowledge Flow; Information spillover; Patent citations; Corporate innovation

JEL Classification: G24, G30, O31

Suggested Citation:

Martens, Tim and Sextroh, Christoph J., Analyst Coverage Overlaps and Interfirm Information Spillovers (May 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3428691 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3428691
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
A Agrawal , A Galasso , A Oettl
Roads and innovation
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 99 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2017
J Alcacer , M Gittelman
Patent citations as a measure of knowledge flows: The influence of examiner citations
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 88 , issue 4 , p. 774 - 779 Posted: 2006
A Ali , D Amiram , A Kalay , G Sadka
Industry sensitivity to external forces, and the industry-level information advantage of analysts over managers when forecasting earnings Posted: 2020
A Allen , B B Francis , Q Wu , Y Zhao
Analyst coverage and corporate tax aggressiveness
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 73 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,400
RANK
129,076
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies