Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Valuation Using the International CAPM and the Constant Perpetual Growth Model

Journal of Economics and Business; University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 20-08

34 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020 Last revised: 31 Dec 2021

Thomas J. O'Brien

University of Connecticut - Department of Finance

Date Written: December 30, 2021

Abstract

For cross-border valuation to be consistent with the International CAPM (ICAPM), translating projected cash flows across currencies should account for a currency risk premium and the economic interaction between uncertain cash flows and uncertain exchange rates. The conventional translation method ignores these items. This study proposes a translation method that is consistent with the ICAPM, given the constant perpetual growth model of valuation. Using empirical data, the study illustrates the conventional translation method’s potentially substantial valuation error if the ICAPM describes the risk-return trade-off in financial markets.

Keywords: cross-border valuation, exchange rates, currency risk premium, International CAPM

JEL Classification: G15

Suggested Citation:

O'Brien, Thomas J., Cross-Border Valuation Using the International CAPM and the Constant Perpetual Growth Model (December 30, 2021). Journal of Economics and Business; University of Connecticut School of Business Research Paper No. 20-08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3429404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3429404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
M Adler , B Dumas
International portfolio choice and corporation finance: A synthesis
Journal of Finance , volume 38 , p. 925 - 984 Posted: 1983
M Adler , B Dumas
Exposure to currency risk: Definition and measurement
Financial Management , volume 13 , p. 41 - 50 Posted: 1984
G Bekaert , R Hodrick
International Financial Management Posted: 2017
M Bergbrant , K Campbell , D Hunter
Firm-level competition and exchange rate exposure: World-wide evidence from foreign-involved and purely domestic firms
Financial Management , volume 43 , p. 885 - 916 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,133
RANK
210,213
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies