Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-by-Country Tax Reporting: A Critical Analysis of Enhanced Regulatory Requirements for Multinational Corporations

(2019) 36(7) Company and Securities Law Journal 570-586

17 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2019

Adrian J. Sawyer

University of Canterbury

Kerrie Sadiq

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

As part of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, country-by-country reporting (CbCR) has been promoted as a mechanism to enhance transparency with respect to the operations and tax planning activities of large multinational corporations. CbCR involves the disclosure by a company, either publicly or in confidence to governments, of tax figures and, potentially, other financial data on a country-by-country basis for all jurisdictions in which it operates. In this article we adopt a cross-country comparative case study analysis, involving two jurisdictions which have implemented CbCR. This article provides a critical analysis of a series of semi-structured interviews conducted in Australia and New Zealand with key tax professionals, along with revenue officials, with the aim of ascertaining the views of the profession and their multinational corporate clients on the new CbCR requirements. The findings not only reinforced our prior expectations based on documentary analysis that the approaches of the two jurisdictions would differ but revealed significant differences in the level of involvement of tax practitioners in preparing for CbCR for corporations, and between large- and mid-tier firms.

Suggested Citation:

Sawyer, Adrian J and Sadiq, Kerrie, Country-by-Country Tax Reporting: A Critical Analysis of Enhanced Regulatory Requirements for Multinational Corporations (January 1, 2019). (2019) 36(7) Company and Securities Law Journal 570-586, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3430067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,013
RANK
502,214
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies