Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting the Value-Relevance of Capitalized Exploration and Evaluation Expenditures Under IFRS 6

34 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2019

Andrew Ferguson

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Stephen Kean

University of Auckland Business School

Gabriel Pundrich

University of Florida

Date Written: August 2, 2019

Abstract

This study examines factors affecting the value-relevance of financial and non-financial disclosure in the context of the long contentious International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS 6). Relative to the capitalization of R&D expenditures, IFRS 6 follows a far less restrictive approach, delaying the requirement for probable future economic benefits in settings of high uncertainty. We compare the value-relevance of this asset with that of non-financial information commonly reported by mining firms, namely mineral resource estimates. We report evidence that investors utilize non-financial information to assess the value-relevance of financial information, initially focusing on whichever information is timelier. We do not find evidence that investors prefer conservative reporting practices in a setting with high uncertainty; rather we provide evidence that investors interpret the capitalization decision as a signal of project viability. This finding is of particular relevance to the ongoing Intangible Assets project being conducted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

Keywords: IFRS 6, intangible assets, value relevance, extractive activities

JEL Classification: G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Ferguson, Andrew and Kean, Stephen and Pundrich, Gabriel, Factors Affecting the Value-Relevance of Capitalized Exploration and Evaluation Expenditures Under IFRS 6 (August 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3431009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3431009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M Alciatore
New Evidence on SFAS No. 69 and the Components of the Change in Reserve Value
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 639 - 656 Posted: 1993
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of Nonfinancial Information: The Wireless Communications Industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M Barth , G Clinch
Scale Effects in Capital Markets-Based Accounting Research
Finance and Accounting , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 253 - 288 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,646
RANK
249,052
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies