Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Broad- Versus Narrow-Sample Evidence in Disclosure Regulation Studies: A Discussion of Badia, Duro, Jorgensen, and Ormazabal (2018)

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

12 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2019

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: August 5, 2019

Abstract

Broad-sample evidence that examines the effect of disclosure regulation is widespread in accounting research — often justified by its greater generalizability relative to narrow-sample evidence. Badia et al. (this issue) takes a different approach by focusing on the effect of disclosure rules in a narrow sample of U.S. and Canadian oil and gas companies. In this discussion, I argue that the contention that broad samples make research on disclosure regulation generalizable is a misconception and that the narrow-sample approach has many advantages and often advances knowledge more than broad-sample research. The key advantage of a narrow sample is that, everything else equal, we generally understand the institutional setting that generated the evidence better. Institutional details allow researchers to more precisely identify the changes that the regulation caused, assess the validity of untestable identification assumptions, and, as a field, it improves our ability to take a Bayesian approach to causal inferences. I illustrate these points by contrasting the evidence in Badia et al. to evidence from broad-sample studies on the effect of IFRS adoption and other major disclosure regulation.

Keywords: disclosure rules, regulation, research method

JEL Classification: M4, M48

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans Bonde, Broad- Versus Narrow-Sample Evidence in Disclosure Regulation Studies: A Discussion of Badia, Duro, Jorgensen, and Ormazabal (2018) (August 5, 2019). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3432676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3432676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Acsb
Summary Comparison of Canadian GAAP and IFRSs as of
The Accounting Standards Board (AcSB) Posted: 2008-07-31
Marc Badia , Miguel Duro , Bjørn N Jørgensen , Gaizka Ormazabal
The Informational Effects of Tightening Oil and Gas Disclosure Rules
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming Pages: 57 Posted: 11 Apr 2017 Last revised: 3 Aug 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball
Discussion of Accounting for Research and Development Costs: The Impact on Research and Development Expenditures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 18 , p. 27 - 37 Posted: 1980
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
14 Citations
Sameh Kobbi-Fakhfakh , Fatma Driss
The effect of mandatory extraction payment disclosures on corporate tax avoidance: evidence from the United Kingdom
Accounting in Europe , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 44 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Nico Lehmann , Almasa Sarabi
Revisiting the Monitoring Role of Sovereign Wealth Funds
76 Pages · Posted: 12 Apr 2017 · Last revised: 25 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 269
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Le Ma , Peter Wells
Evaluation of Fair Value Relevance and Sensitivity to Valuation Assumptions
Abacus , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 419 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Dain C. Donelson , Brian Monsen , Christopher Yust
U.S. Evidence from D&O Insurance on Accounting-Related Agency Costs: Implications for Country-Specific Studies
Journal of Financial Reporting, Vol. 6 (2), pp. 63-87, Fall 2021 · 49 Pages · Posted: 1 Mar 2019 · Last revised: 12 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 166
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,392
RANK
248,130
14 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies