Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Financial Reporting Standards - A Tool for Harmonising the Financial Reporting

International Journal of Financial Management 9 (2) 2019, 41-47

7 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2019 Last revised: 4 Aug 2020

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

Divyashree M. S.

Government First Grade College

Date Written: July 31, 2019

Abstract

Accounting is a media which communicates the business and financial information of each and every organisation so as to cater to the needs of various interested parties. Business involves undertaking a series of activities, which may be financial or nonfinancial, to achieve its prime goal. Irrespective of the nature of the business activity, it is important to note that all the information in relation to the activities undertaken by them must be communicated so as to ensure the transparency and accountability towards its stakeholders. To achieve the quantitative and qualitative communication of business and financial information, it is necessary to follow standardized, comprehensive, and unified accounting standards and guidelines. One such standard is International Financial Reporting Standards. The present study is intended to analyse the perception of users of financial statement from financial analysts and investors. Based on the primary data, it is found that users of financial statements are having positive perception towards harmonisation of accounting standards and they opined that it enhances the quality of financial reporting.

Keywords: Harmonisation, IFRSs, Quality of Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

N, Abhishek and M. S., Divyashree, International Financial Reporting Standards - A Tool for Harmonising the Financial Reporting (July 31, 2019). International Journal of Financial Management 9 (2) 2019, 41-47, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433195
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Wagenhofer
Global accounting standards: reality and ambitions
Accounting Research Journal , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 80 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 70 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A K Bhattacharyya
IFRS, audit compliance to change accounting practices. The Business Standard Posted: 2011
H Daske , L Hail , C Leuz , R Verdi
Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
856
RANK
521,427
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies