Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Event Study about Quarterly Financial Reports and Interim Management Statements (Eventstudies von Quartalsberichten und -mitteilungen)

84 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2019 Last revised: 19 Aug 2019

Tom Martins

PricewaterhouseCoopers

Date Written: April 3, 2019

Abstract

Since 21 November 2015, prime standard listed companies are given the option to choose between an interim management statement and a quarterly financial report for their respective first and third quarter financial reporting. Because the disclosure requirements for interim management statements are trimmed to a necessary baseline, the structure and the design of those can differ tremendously from the very comprehensive quarterly financial reports.

Various opinions prevail about the necessity of quarterly financial reporting. The missing public consensus makes it difficult to justify the existence of interim financial reporting. The European Union suggested both first and third quarter financial reporting would not be necessary for investor protection. From the stand point of this master thesis, the European Union’s point of view must be rejected, as there is statistically significant evidence both quarterly financial reports and interim management statements create abnormal information content. Because this study has found statistically significant evidence across all DAX subsamples, the findings are not only robust, but can also be considered representative of the German market. The results presented underscore the need, the necessity, and the importance of interim financial reporting; being a powerful and eligible communication tool for publicly listed firms. It was also found both MDAX and SDAX-listed companies create higher abnormal information content, as compared to DAX30-listed firms. This indicates investors of small and medium-sized companies have greater information needs at the time of interim report publication from companies with smaller public exposure.

Regarding the whole sample, interim management statements have a stronger, and longer lasting effect on the capital market than quarterly financial reports. Firms are able to take advantage of the less restrictive disclosure requirements to restructure and redesign their interim management statements more effectively, and to present material information more precisely than firms preparing quarterly financial reports. Generally discovered: the choice of reporting format matters. Nonetheless, statistical significance disappears when splitting the whole sample into DAX30, MDAX and SDAX subsamples, suggesting limited representative power.

Keywords: Quarterly Financial Reports, Interim Management Statements, Quarterly Financial Reporting, IAS 34, Interim Financial Reporting, Germany, Disclosure requirements, WpHG, BörsO, Frankfurt Stock Exchange Rules, European Directive, Disclosure Initiative, IASB, Event study

JEL Classification: M-41

Suggested Citation:

Martins, Tom, An Event Study about Quarterly Financial Reports and Interim Management Statements (Eventstudies von Quartalsberichten und -mitteilungen) (April 3, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3433064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3433064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Cp
Deutscher Investor Relations Verband Posted: 2016
Cp , &amp; Stiftung , Co , Kgaa
Posted: 2018
Cp. Böckem & Rabenhorst Posted: 2016
Crossref
Cp
The European Parliament and the Council Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
954
RANK
394,952
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies