Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Information Shocks on Dividend Payout and Dividend Value Relevance

International Review of Financial Analysis

47 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2019 Last revised: 6 Nov 2022

Mostafa Harakeh

American University of Beirut

Edward Lee

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: October 31, 2018

Abstract

We exploit the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as a source of exogenous shock to the corporate financial information environment to study the potential effect that this information shock might have on the dividend payout policy and dividend value relevance in the UK and France. We employ a difference-in-differences research design, in which our choice of the control and treatment groups is mainly based on the divergence between domestic accounting standards and IFRS, while holding institutional factors constant. The UK domestic accounting standards slightly diverge from IFRS (low-divergence firms), whereas French domestic accounting standards substantially diverge from IFRS (high-divergence firms). Nevertheless, both countries have similar institutional factors that might confound the effect of IFRS adoption. Our theoretical argument is that IFRS adoption is expected to mitigate information asymmetry, a major reason for the free cash flow problem (Jensen, 1986) and cash over-retention (Myers and Majluf, 1984). Our findings suggest that IFRS adoption is a major contributor in increasing dividend payouts among high-divergence firms via reduction of asymmetric information. Moreover, improving the information environment helps investors become more confident about using accounting numbers to assess firm financial performance, which causes a significant reduction in dividend value relevance among high-divergence firms.

Keywords: Information Shocks, Information Asymmetry, IFRS, Dividend Payout, Dividend Value Relevance

JEL Classification: M40, G30

Suggested Citation:

Harakeh, Mostafa and Lee, Edward and Walker, Martin, The Effect of Information Shocks on Dividend Payout and Dividend Value Relevance (October 31, 2018). International Review of Financial Analysis, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3442232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
S Akbar , A Stark
Deflators, net shareholder cash flows, dividends, capital contributions and estimated models of corporate valuation
J. Bus. Financ. Account , volume 30 , p. 1211 - 1233 Posted: 2003
F Allen , R Michaely , G Constantinides , M Harris , R Stulz
Handbook of the Economics of Finance
Payout Policy , p. 337 - 429 Posted: 2003
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
The effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on conditional conservatism in Europe
J. Bus. Financ. Account , volume 42 , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mastering 'Metrics : the Path from Cause to Effect Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
RANK
897,570
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies