Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Differential Impact of IFRS Adoption on Aspects of Seasoned Equity Offerings in the UK and France

Accounting in Europe

49 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2019 Last revised: 6 Nov 2022

Mostafa Harakeh

American University of Beirut

Edward Lee

University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Martin Walker

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Date Written: October 31, 2018

Abstract

We examine the potential for IFRS to influence the market for SEOs in the UK and France. The divergence between the UK domestic accounting standards and IFRS is minor (low-divergence firms) whereas domestic accounting standards in France differ materially from IFRS (high-divergence firms); however, both countries have similar legal enforcement and institutional settings that might confound the effect of IFRS adoption. We argue that IFRS adoption serves to mitigate information asymmetry and improve accounting quality. Accordingly, we find that, following IFRS adoption, earnings management activities decrease among high-divergence firms prior to issuing SEOs. As a result of the lower levels of earnings management and information asymmetry, we predict and find that the market reaction to issuing SEOs improves significantly for high-divergence firms following IFRS. Given that equity financing becomes less costly, we find that the propensity to issue new SEOs increases among high-divergence firms after IFRS adoption. We find no similar changes among low-divergence firms. The results persist after running a matched-sample analysis and controlling for potential self-selection bias.

Keywords: IFRS, Information Asymmetry, Earnings Management, Seasoned Equity Offerings, Equity Financing

JEL Classification: G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Harakeh, Mostafa and Lee, Edward and Walker, Martin, The Differential Impact of IFRS Adoption on Aspects of Seasoned Equity Offerings in the UK and France (October 31, 2018). Accounting in Europe, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3442238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
G Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
P André
The role and current status of IFRS in the completion of national accounting rulesevidence from European countries
Accounting in Europe , volume 14 , issue 1-2 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2017
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market Reaction to Events Surrounding the Adoption of IFRS in Europe Market Reaction to Events Surrounding the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,145
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies