Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards and Earnings Quality – Evidence from Registered ADRS

Alhaj-Yaseen, Y. S., Wu, K., & Fletcher, L. B. (2018). Accounting Standards and Earnings Quality—Evidence from Registered ADRs. Review of Pacific Basin Financial Markets and Policies, 21(04), 1850022.

40 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2019

Yaseen Alhaj-Yaseen

University of Findlay

Kean Wu

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Leslie Fletcher

Georgia Southern University

Date Written: July 31, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the changes in earnings quality of registered ADRs as a result of switching accounting standards. We aim to shed light on the potential impact of IFRS adoption on US firms. A suboptimal approach to achieve this goal is through examination of US firms’ surrogates such as ADRs. Unlike previous studies, we made a distinction between registered and unregistered ADRs, and affirmed that registered ADRs are the closest surrogates with which to conduct our analysis because they are exclusively required to adhere to the SEC’s stringent disclosure requirements. When cross-listing their equity on the US exchanges, foreign issuers can file their financial reports with the SEC using IFRS, US GAAP, or their domestic GAAP with reconciliation to US GAAP. An improvement in earnings quality is documented when ADRs adopt US GAAP or IFRS versus domestic GAAP. However, when the comparison is made between US GAAP and IFRS, no difference in earnings quality is documented. These results indicate that switching to high-quality accounting standards is likely to improve earnings quality. This improvement is maximized when the difference between reporting standards is high and minimized if otherwise. Our conclusion is that the adoption of IFRS in the US is unlikely to change earnings quality of local issuers. Moreover, we drew a distinction between reconciliation with and adoption of high-quality accountings standards and find that while the former can enhance earnings quality, the latter can further improve it.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), Earnings Quality, IFRS Adoption

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Alhaj-Yaseen, Yaseen and Wu, Kean and Fletcher, Leslie, Accounting Standards and Earnings Quality – Evidence from Registered ADRS (July 31, 2017). Alhaj-Yaseen, Y. S., Wu, K., & Fletcher, L. B. (2018). Accounting Standards and Earnings Quality—Evidence from Registered ADRs. Review of Pacific Basin Financial Markets and Policies, 21(04), 1850022., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3448102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
887
RANK
692,613
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies