Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Quality and Sustainability Information Disclosure in Brazil

23 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2019

João Antônio Salvador de Souza

Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Leonardo Flach

Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Jose Alonso Borba

Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Broietti Broietti

Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Date Written: September 11, 2019

Abstract

Currently, businesses face an information disclosure approach involving the triple bottom line (social, environmental, and financial). This paper aims to investigate the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) information and financial reporting quality (FRQ). We argue that CSR companies behave differently in preparing financial accounting reports. Recent literature supports this theme, providing two distinct hypotheses: transparent financial reporting and retreatment. We used a sample of 1,181 companies from the years 2012 to 2016 to identify if socially responsible companies have better quality financial accounting information. In contrast to the hypotheses raised, we didn't find a relationship between the CSR disclosures and the FRQ proxies. This suggests that sustainable companies do not explain lower or higher levels of earnings management. Our findings remain unchanged when we replace results management through discretionary accruals for manipulations of operating activities. Estimates with comparable samples also didn’t change the interpretations of the results.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial Reporting Quality, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: G12, G14, K22, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Salvador de Souza, João Antônio and Flach, Leonardo and Borba, Jose Alonso and Broietti, Broietti, Financial Reporting Quality and Sustainability Information Disclosure in Brazil (September 11, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3452050 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3452050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
S Bozzolan , M Fabrizi , C A Mallin , G Michelon
Corporate social responsibility and earnings quality: International evidence
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 361 - 396 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M F Calegari , T Chotigeat , M A Harjoto
Corporate social responsibility and earnings reporting
Journal of Current Research in Global Business , volume 13 , issue 20 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2010
A C Cameron , P K Trivedi
Microeconometrics using stata Posted: 2010
A Carroll
Three-dimensional conceptual model of corporate performance
The Academy of Managment Review , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 497 - 505 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Hossam Sharawi
The Impact of ESG Disclosure on Financial Reporting Quality: Evidence From KSA
11 Pages · Posted: 13 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 660
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,480
RANK
276,301
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies