Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Experimental Evidence on the Impact of Replacing the Incurred Credit Loss Model of Bank Loan Loss Provisions with the International or US Accounting Standards Boards’ Expected Credit Loss Models

112 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2019 Last revised: 23 Jan 2020

Mohamed Gomaa

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Stuart Mestelman

McMaster University - Department of Economics

Mohamed Shehata

McMaster University - Michael G. DeGroote School of Business

Date Written: September 12, 2019

Abstract

Our objective is to test-bed the new Expected Credit Loss (ECL) and Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) models for bank credit loss accounting to identify the potential consequences of their implementation. In particular, whether and how ECL and CECL approaches could lead to divergence in credit loss accounting practices in the U.S. relative to the rest of the world is an unanswered question. To do this, we develop a stylized bank-loan setting in a controlled laboratory environment with eight different secured personal-loan portfolios. Fifty-six senior accounting students take the role of loan managers responsible for making annual loan-loss reserve decisions in a between-subjects design under the rules of either the ECL or CECL models. We examine the effects of mandating the ECL or CECL model in terms of their impacts on the adequacy of loan-loss reserves, the comparability and predictability of loan-loss reserves and the volatility of reported profit.

Keywords: Credit-Loss Rule Changes, Test-bedding, Adequacy of Reserves, Excess of Reserves, Accounting Comparability, Accounting Predictability

JEL Classification: M48, C63, C91, M52

Suggested Citation:

Gomaa, Mohamed and Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Mestelman, Stuart and Shehata, Mohamed, Experimental Evidence on the Impact of Replacing the Incurred Credit Loss Model of Bank Loan Loss Provisions with the International or US Accounting Standards Boards’ Expected Credit Loss Models (September 12, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3453293 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3453293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
E Balla , M J Rose
Loan Loss Provisions, Accounting Constraints, and Bank Ownership Structure
Journal of Economics and Business , volume 78 , p. 92 - 117 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Beatty , S Liao
Financial Accounting in the Banking Industry: A Review of the Empirical Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 339 - 383 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P J Beck , G S Narayanamoorthy
Did the SEC Impact Banks' Loan Loss Reserve Policies and their Informativeness?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 42 - 65 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R M Bushman
Thoughts on Financial Accounting and the Banking Industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 384 - 395 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,386
RANK
249,052
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies