Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Re-examining the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on IPO Underpricing

The Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Sep 2019 Last revised: 28 Dec 2020

Donal Byard

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Masako N. Darrough

Baruch College - CUNY

Jangwon Suh

CUNY Queens College

Date Written: December 22, 2020

Abstract

In the mid-2000s, the European Union (EU) adopted a number of regulatory reforms intended to increase transparency and disclosure for IPO firms, including mandating the use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The reforms also included (1) adoption of the Prospectus Directive (PD), which mandated increased IPO prospectus disclosures and (2) increased accounting enforcement. These new regulations apply only to IPOs listing on “EU-regulated” markets; firms admitted to trading on “exchange-regulated” markets are exempt from these regulations. We examine the impact of these regulations on IPO firms. For firms listing on EU-regulated markets, we find no association between IFRS and IPO underpricing; however, we find a significant decrease in IPO underpricing associated with adoption of the PD in countries that also increased accounting enforcement. Further, we confirm that after 2005, most IPOs on exchange-regulated markets went public using domestic accounting standards, not IFRS. Our findings are important since they suggest that mandatory IFRS adoption did not play a major role in reducing IPO underpricing and contrast sharply with the results of prior research, which failed to account for IPOs on exchange-regulated markets. Our evidence highlights the importance of controlling for contemporaneous changes in regulations and details of the institutional setting before attributing major economic consequences to a switch from domestic accounting standards to IFRS.

Keywords: Mandatory IFRS adoption, IPO Underpricing, European Union, Prospectus Directive, EU-Regulated Market, Exchange-Regulated Market

JEL Classification: G15, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Byard, Donal and Darrough, Masako N. and Suh, Jangwon, Re-examining the impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on IPO Underpricing (December 22, 2020). The Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3453254 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3453254
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,593
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies