Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysing the Dynamic Influence of US Macroeconomic News Releases on Turkish Stock Markets

15 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2019

Cumhur Ekinci

Istanbul Technical University

Erdin Akyildirim

University of Zurich

Shaen Corbet

Dublin City University ; University of Waikato - Management School

Date Written: September 15, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the effects of macroeconomic announcements made in the United States on trading activity of stocks listed in Borsa Istanbul. The influence of these releases on the selected variables are an important source of information for market participants. Results show a clear negative impact on weighted bid, ask and mid-prices in the five-minute period post-release. Available liquidity measured by pending orders in limit order book decreases with the news arrival. These results present implications for market dynamics and signal that liquidity consumption (through market orders) largely dominates liquidity provision (through limit orders) in the five-minute period following the release.

Keywords: US Macroeconomic Announcements; Stocks; Liquidity; High-Frequency Data; Trading; Borsa Istanbul

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G12

Suggested Citation:

Ekinci, Cumhur and Akyildirim, Erdin and Corbet, Shaen, Analysing the Dynamic Influence of US Macroeconomic News Releases on Turkish Stock Markets (September 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3454212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3454212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
The null hypothesis is the equality of percentage variation in the relevant variable across release days and non-release days. The first column (from 'All' to 'G6') shows the stock groups as mentioned in Table 2. The lists of abbreviated variables are given in Tables 3 and 4. %∆V2, %∆V3 and %∆V4 show the percentage change in the variable from period 1
Note: All the numbers are t-statistics , volume 15
%∆v3 Ws2 Ws5 Pv Pf Sar Aart Ncbs Ncsb
Crossref
The first column (from 'All' to 'G6') shows the stock groups as mentioned in Table 2. The lists of abbreviated variables are given in Tables 3 and 4. %∆V2, %∆V3 and %∆V4 show the percentage change in the variable from period 1 (15:20-15:25) to period 2 (15:25-15:30), from period 2 to period 3 (15:30-15:35) and from period 3 to period 4
Note: All the numbers are t-statistics. The null hypothesis is the equality of percentage variation in the relevant variable across release days and non-release days , volume 15 , p. 35 - 50
Load more
2 Citations
Shaen Corbet , Charles James Larkin , Brian M. Lucey
The Contagion Effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic: Evidence from Gold and Cryptocurrencies
12 Pages · Posted: 30 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 1,158
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Muhammad Zia ur Rehman
Modeling Cryptocurrencies Volatility Using Garch Models: A Comparison Based on Normal and Student’s T-Error Distribution
Salamat, S., Lixia, N., Naseem, S., Mohsin, M., Zia-ur-Rehman, M., & Baig, S. A. (2020). Modeling cryptocurrencies volatility using GARCH models: a comparison based on Normal and Student's T-Error distribution. Entrepreneurship and Sustainability Issues, 7(3), 1580-1596. · 17 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2020 · Downloads: 415
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
897,570
2 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies