Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring National Character Based Toward Developing A Research Method for International Accounting Studies

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2 No.3 (2019)

16 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2019

Ichiro Mukai

Aichi Gakuin University

Date Written: September 16, 2019

Abstract

This study measures national character in seven developed countries, based on social capital concept. Evaluating national character in developed countries help cross-country study on accounting system. The measurements of national character use data of the World Values Surveys (WVS) conducted by the World Values Surveys Association. The WVS is a questionnaire survey that uses a random sampling method with multiple precoded selections. Compared to other social capital surveys, this survey makes better measurement of national character because it includes numerous questions in a wide range of fields and focuses on many people in diverse countries. Factor analysis of the WVS data identifies three factors of social capital concept. These three factors are consistent with the components of social capital concept proposed in previous studies. Structural equation model finds the coefficients for measuring national character, and regression analysis measures three indexes of national character of each country. The findings are as follows. Social capital consists of three factors such as social trust, religious social norms, and political networks. The measures of these three factors are the lowest in Japan, followed by France, the United States, Germany, Canada, and Australia, in increasing order. In developed countries, religious social norms measures are negative and low, and the effect of political networks on national character is relatively low. This study implies that differences in national character affect various national institutions and systems. This study has significant implications for both regulators and financial markets.

Keywords: International Accounting, International Financial Reporting Standards, National Character, Research Method, Social Capital

Suggested Citation:

Mukai, Ichiro, Measuring National Character Based Toward Developing A Research Method for International Accounting Studies (September 16, 2019). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2 No.3 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3454119
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
R T Benedict
Patterns of Culture Posted: 1934
Social Capital: In Search for a Virtuous Circle of Rich Human Relations and Civil Activities
Cabinet Office Posted: 2003
J S Chhokar , F C Brodbeck , R J House
Culture and Leadership Across the World: The GLOBE Book of In-Depth Studies of 25 Societies Posted: 2008
P Dasgupta , I Serageldin
Social Capital: A Multifaceted Perspective Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
590
RANK
741,983
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies