Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Geometry of International Tax Planning After the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: A Riff on Circles, Squares, and Triangles

National Tax Journal, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2019

Michael P. Donohoe

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Gary A. McGill

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Edmund Outslay

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: September 19, 2019

Abstract

The enactment of the so-called Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) significantly changes the landscape for tax planning and compliance by U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs). The promised shift to a more territorial system actually results in a greater likelihood that more of a U.S. MNC’s foreign income is subject to current U.S. taxation. The TCJA complicates effective tax planning for such firms, forcing them to reexamine their existing global structures and financial arrangements (i.e., the “geometry” of international tax planning). We briefly review international tax planning before the TCJA as well as some key international tax provisions in the TCJA. We then provide a method to estimate the new Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) tax from a U.S. MNC’s financial statements when such information is not publicly disclosed and illustrate the effective tax rate (ETR) and GILTI tax effects for a small sample of public firms after the TCJA. Finally, we discuss some likely changes in international tax planning going forward.

Keywords: corporate tax, international tax, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, organizational structure

JEL Classification: H25, H26, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Donohoe, Michael P. and McGill, Gary A. and Outslay, Edmund, The Geometry of International Tax Planning After the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: A Riff on Circles, Squares, and Triangles (September 19, 2019). National Tax Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3456752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J Blouin , L Krull
Does Organizational Form Affect Firms' Foreign Operations? The Role of 'Check-the-Box' on Multinational Tax Planning Posted: 2015
Ramon Camacho , Priya White
The Mechanics and Pitfalls of GILTI and FDII
Tax Notes , p. 1157 - 1166 Posted: 2019-05-20
Richard Carrizosa , Fabio Gaertner , Daniel Lynch
Debt and Taxes? The Effect of TCJA Interest Limitations on Capital Structure Posted: 2019
De Simone , Lisa , Marcel Olbert
Real Effects of Private Country-by-Country Disclosure Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,138
RANK
133,571
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies