Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Financial Instruments under IFRS 9 – First-Time Application Effects on European Banks’ Balance Sheets

European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2019 – no. 48

102 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2019

Edgar Loew

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management gGmbH

Lisa E. Schmidt

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Lars F. Thiel

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management

Date Written: October 1, 2019

Abstract

IFRS 9 was introduced by the IASB in 2014 and became mandatory for fiscal years starting in 2018. It bears fundamental changes in the accounting requirements for financial instruments, especially in the areas of recognition, categorisation and measurement, impairment and loan loss provision. As bank balance sheets consists of financial instruments by more than 95 per cent, the application of the new standard was expected to bear major impacts on the bank´s balance sheets. This working paper covers a review of pre-application impact assessments publishes by regulating authorities, such as EBA, auditors and researchers. Main part of the working paper is a comprehensive overall balance sheet impact with a closer look at the effects on CET1 ratios. Therefore, detailed movements between previous and current classification categories as well as the portfolio composition per category are analysed. A specific look on the classification of equity instruments as well as potential changes in maturity of long term investments in loans and bonds are taken. It can be shown that the equity investments usually are not specifically categorised and that IFRS 9 doesn’t have an effect on long term investments by banks. The study also outlines the transition impact from the incurred loss to the expected loss model with a focus on the allocation of assets to the newly introduced three impairment stages and the development of loan loss reserves. The data of the study is clustered by characteristics to show the influence of size, credit risk approach, business model and country and tests the findings for statistical significance. That allows to outline visible trends affecting the new standard´s impact severity.

Keywords: Bank Accounting, Banks, Financial Instruments Accounting, IFRS 9, Impairment, Loan loss provision, Accounting, Auditing

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G21, G28, K22, K23, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Loew, Edgar and Schmidt, Lisa E. and Thiel, Lars F., Accounting for Financial Instruments under IFRS 9 – First-Time Application Effects on European Banks’ Balance Sheets (October 1, 2019). European Banking Institute Working Paper Series 2019 – no. 48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3462299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3462299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between Corporate Characteristics and Disclosure Levels in Annual Reports: A Meta-Analysis , volume 31 Posted: 1999
Crossref
N H Akman
The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Financial Disclosure: Does Culture Still Play A Role?
American International Journal of Contemporary Research , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 6 - 17 Posted: 2011-07
J J Archambault , M E Archambault
A Multinational Test of Determinants of Corporate Disclosure
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 38 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ayadi , M Keoula , W P De Groen , W Mathlouthi , I Sassi
Bank and Credit Union Business Models in the UNITED STATES, Alphonse and Dorimène Desjardins International Institute for Cooperatives and International Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,738
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,154
RANK
11,215
17 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies