Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stewardship Code, Institutional Investors, and Firm Value: International Evidence

38 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2019 Last revised: 14 Jan 2022

Yutaro Shiraishi

Tokyo Institute of Technology

Naoshi Ikeda

Nihon University

Yasuhiro Arikawa

Waseda University - Graduate School of Business and Finance

Kotaro Inoue

School fo Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology

Date Written: January 14, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates whether the introduction of stewardship codes mitigates the free-rider problem of institutional investors and increases the value of firms with high institutional ownership from a cross-county analysis. Using a difference-in-differences approach, we find robust evidence that the introduction of the code in a country increases the value of firms with high institutional ownership. Our findings support the view that stewardship codes encourage institutional investors, who typically hold a widely diversified portfolio, to monitor their portfolio firms. Although previous studies are skeptical about the role of institutional investors whose portfolios are extensively diversified given the free-rider problem, our results indicate that stewardship codes successfully mitigate the problem to a significant extent. Stewardship codes can be an effective mechanism for institutional investors to commit to the monitoring role.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Institutional Investor, Stewardship Code

JEL Classification: G18, G23, G32, G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Shiraishi, Yutaro and Ikeda, Naoshi and Arikawa, Yasuhiro and Inoue, Kotaro, Stewardship Code, Institutional Investors, and Firm Value: International Evidence (January 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3462453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3462453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Amec
The Association of Capital Markets Investors Posted: 2016
M Bertrand , S Mullainathan
Enjoying the quiet life? Corporate governance and managerial preferences
Journal of Political Economy , volume 111 , p. 1043 - 1075 Posted: 2003
A Brav , A Dasgupta , R Mathews
Wolf pack activism. Management Science, Published online in Articles in Advance 08 Posted: 2021-11
M J G Bun , T D Harrison
OLS and IV estimation of regression models including endogenous interaction terms
Econometric Reviews , volume 38 , p. 814 - 827 Posted: 2019
Load more
2 Citations
James Routledge
Stewardship regulation and earnings quality: evidence from Japan
Accounting Research Journal , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 543 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Yun Kyung Kim , Yunsung Koh
Effects of public pension funds and Stewardship Code on dividends and firm value: evidence from National Pension Service of Korea
Asia Pacific Business Review , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 453 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,295
RANK
129,393
2 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies