Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creative Accounting, Audit Risk and Audit Failure in Nigeria: What is the Auditor’s Perspective?

Nwaorgu, I. A.; Abiahu, M. C.; Iormbagah, J. A. & Egbunike, P. A. (2019). Creative Accounting, Audit Risk and Audit Failure in Nigeria: What is the Auditor’s Perspective?. International Journal of Economics, Business and Management Studies, 6(2): 261-271.

11 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2019

Innocent Augustine Nwaorgu

Michael Okpara University of Agriculture - Department of Accounting

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Jacob Aondohemba Iormbagah

Department of Accounting, College of Management Sciences, Michael Okpara University of Agriculture Umudike, Umuahia, Abia State, Nigeria

Amaechi Egbunike

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 1, 2019

Abstract

Creative accounting has taken a centre stage in the discussions around audit failures on the global stage. Several researches have sought to proffer solutions that aid organizations to avoid the potholes. This study, however, examined the Auditors’ perspective on the effect of creative accounting practices on audit risk and audit failure in Nigeria. The study employed a survey research design using the Chi-square to analyze data gathered from questionnaires distributed to 115 practising auditors from different geopolitical zones in Nigeria. The findings of the study revealed that creative accounting has a significant effect on audit risk with a non-significant effect on audit failure. Based on the results obtained from this study it is recommended that Auditors should ensure that detailed attention is given to the detection of creative accounting practice by managers during the course of audit practice. Also, auditors must make sure that they adhere strictly to the dictates of the International Standards on Auditing in order to avoid failure of audit.

Keywords: Audit failure, Audit risk, Auditors’ perspective, Creative accounting, Earnings management, International standards on auditing

JEL Classification: M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Nwaorgu, Innocent Augustine and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Iormbagah, Jacob Aondohemba and Egbunike, Amaechi, Creative Accounting, Audit Risk and Audit Failure in Nigeria: What is the Auditor’s Perspective? (October 1, 2019). Nwaorgu, I. A.; Abiahu, M. C.; Iormbagah, J. A. & Egbunike, P. A. (2019). Creative Accounting, Audit Risk and Audit Failure in Nigeria: What is the Auditor’s Perspective?. International Journal of Economics, Business and Management Studies, 6(2): 261-271., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3469107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
I Y A Ahmed
The impact of creative accounting techniques on the reliability of financial reporting with particular reference to Saudi auditors and academics
International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 283 - 291 Posted: 2017
M Allam , M Adel , M Sameh
The impact of audit committee characteristics on the performance of firms: Evidence from Jordan
International Management Review , volume 1 , issue 9 , p. 3 - 14 Posted: 2013
R D Allen , D R Hermanson , T M Kozloski , R J Ramsay
Auditor risk assessment: Insights from the academic literature. Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , p. 157 - 177 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Arens , M Elder , M Beasley
Auditing and assurance services Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,328
RANK
252,723
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies