Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting IFRS Consequences: Evidence from Wider Corporate Reporting

45 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2019

Ekaete Efretuei

Liverpool Business School, Liverpool John Moores University

Date Written: June 14, 2019

Abstract

Prior IFRS adoption effects focus on accounting quantitative information but there is scant evidence of the impact on textual attributes. Motivated by the increasing complexity of annual report narratives, this study examines the impact of IFRS adoption on the level of complexity of accounting narratives. Narrative complexity is measured using, increased disclosures, syllabification at the word level and fog index from computational linguistics. Statistical regression fixed effects model including accounting narrative research control variables is used to analyse the relationship between the observed level of annual report narrative complexity and mandatory adoption excluding the adoption year effects. The results find evidence of a significant increase in complexity with the mandatory regulatory adoption of IFRS in 2005 and this increase appears to be associated with increased narrative disclosures (longer narratives), increased use of complex words and overall textual complexity.

Keywords: IFRS; Annual report; Disclosure complexity; Textual analysis

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Efretuei, Ekaete, Revisiting IFRS Consequences: Evidence from Wider Corporate Reporting (June 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3469639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3469639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Ö Arslan-Ayaydin , J Smeyers , J Thewissen
Size Matters! The Performance and Readability of CEO Letters to Shareholders Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
RANK
451,566
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies