Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Innovation Consequences of Mandatory Patent Disclosures

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2019 Last revised: 20 Nov 2020

Jinhwan Kim

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Kristen Valentine

University of Georgia

Date Written: November 19, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the effect of patent disclosures on corporate innovation. Using the American Inventor’s Protection Act (AIPA) as a shock that increased patent disclosures, we find an increase in innovation for firms whose rivals reveal more information after the AIPA and a decrease in innovation for firms whose own disclosures are divulged to competitors as a result of the law. These findings suggest patent disclosures generate both spillover benefits and proprietary costs. Our findings provide justification for patent disclosure requirements by demonstrating positive externalities: rivals’ disclosures facilitate a firm’s innovation. However, we also highlight that mandatory patent disclosures can impose proprietary costs on firms. These results broadly contribute to our understanding of the real effects of disclosure, such that forcing firms to share proprietary information can be privately costly but beneficial to other firms.

Keywords: Patent disclosure, innovation, spillovers, proprietary costs, corporate disclosure

JEL Classification: D23, G38, M40, M41, O30, O31, O32, O34, O38

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jinhwan and Valentine, Kristen, The Innovation Consequences of Mandatory Patent Disclosures (November 19, 2020). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3469400 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3469400
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Cyrus Aghamolla , Richard T. Thakor
Do Mandatory Disclosure Requirements for Private Firms Increase the Propensity of Going Public?
Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 60, No. 3, 2022 Pages: 63 Posted: 2 Aug 2019 Last revised: 9 May 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
P Aghion , M Dewatripont , J Stein
Academic Freedom, Private-Sector Focus, and the Process of Innovation
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 617 - 635 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and Institutional Ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Huang
Controllability of Risk and the Design of Incentive-Compensation Contracts , p. 1 - 75 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
833
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,074
RANK
67,341
5 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies