Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transition to Ind AS and Profit Reporting of the Initial Adopters

Our Heritage, Volume 68, Issue 8.

10 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2019 Last revised: 22 May 2020

Agnishwar Basu

University of North Bengal

Dr. Debabrata Mitra

North Bengal University

Date Written: September 13, 2019

Abstract

Once investment and product market were opened up world-wide, it did not take much time to realise that differences in procedures of financial reporting in different parts of the world stood as a major barrier to readability of financial statements and consequently hampers expansion. As a uniform accounting and reporting framework, the IFRS was introduced with the objective to bring more transparency and for the better understanding of financial statements. However, unlike many other countries, India did not straightway adopt the IFRS, instead the Accounting Standard Board of the ICAI, in consultation with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, opined for convergence with the IFRS by drafting a complete new set of Indian Accounting Standards, popularly known as Ind AS. The MCA released a phase-wise implementation plan and accordingly, the first phase of adoption took place in the financial year 2016-17. Nearly 350 companies adopted Ind AS for the year and also redrafted their comparative financial statements.
Reporting of Profit has been a major concern for corporates because of its stock-market implications. It has been seen that due to the transition to Ind AS, many figures including the Net Worth, the Working Capital, the Reserves have witnessed revisions. Further, the author of this paper in his earlier papers, observed that transition to Ind AS resulted in revaluation as well as reclassification of Balance Sheet items. Existing Literatures provide varied outcomes regarding the effect of IFRS over the financial reporting in different parts of the world. India’s case is unique and calls for evaluation as India is implanting a framework which is neither the old Indian GAAP, nor the IFRS. On other words, since the Ind AS differs from both, depending upon literatures that evaluated IFRS may not be appropriate.
In this paper, an attempt has been made to evaluate how the transition to Ind AS affected the profit reporting of the companies that adopted it during the first phase. Both the absolute profit figures and the relative return ratios have been taken into consideration. It is observed that unlike Balance Sheet items, the Reported Profit did not significantly change due to the transition. This is because the revenue items did not witness much of revaluation as a result of adoption of Ind AS. However, since Ind AS hit the Balance Sheets with reclassification of equity and liabilities, it affected the ROE ratios. This paper concludes that unlike Balance Sheet items, Reported Profit does not vary to a great extent due to the transition to Ind AS.


Keywords: IFRS, Ind AS, Accounting Standard, Financial Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Agnishwar and Mitra, Dr. Debabrata, Transition to Ind AS and Profit Reporting of the Initial Adopters (September 13, 2019). Our Heritage, Volume 68, Issue 8., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3469097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3469097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
A Basu , D Mitra
A Study of the Effects of Transition to Ind AS on Selected Phase I PSUs
The Management Accountant , volume 54 , issue 4 , p. 14 - 19 Posted: 2019
Crossref
E L Black , A Maggina
The Impact of IFRS on Financial Statement Data in Greece
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 90 Posted: 2016
Crossref
H Daske , L Hail , C Leuz , R Verdi
Mandatory IFRS reporting around the world: early evidence on the economic consequences
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 1085 - 1142 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Jones , A Finley
Have IFRS made a difference to intra-country financial reporting diversity?
The British Accounting Review , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 22 - 38 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
RANK
409,562
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies