Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated Reporting Practices in Indian Companies

Focus: Journal of International Business, Volume 6, Issue 1, January-June, pp. 140-151, 2019

12 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2019

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

Divyashree M. S.

Government First Grade College

Date Written: JUNE 30, 2019

Abstract

Today, financial reporting is not only limited to producing financial information. Besides financial information, non-financial information is also provided to the information seekers. The system of communicating both financial and non-financial information in a single report is known as the Integrated Reporting (IR) system. The present study is intended to analyze the current status of IR in the Indian context and also to analyse the compliance level of IR disclosures by selected companies as per IIRC guidelines through secondary data. The study evidently found that all the 8 selected companies are disclosing human and social and relationship capital-related information in a good manner and that these companies’ disclosure practices will become the motivation for other Indian companies for practicing integrated reporting voluntarily.

Keywords: Integrated reporting; IIRC guidelines; Human capital; Social capital; Relational capital

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

N, Abhishek and M. S., Divyashree, Integrated Reporting Practices in Indian Companies (JUNE 30, 2019). Focus: Journal of International Business, Volume 6, Issue 1, January-June, pp. 140-151, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
S Adams , R Simnett
Integrated reporting: An opportunity for Australia's not for profit sector
Australian Accounting Review , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 292 - 301 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R G Eccles , D Saltzman
Achieving sustainability through integrated reporting
Stanford Social Innovation Review (Summer) , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 56 - 61 Posted: 2011
R G Eccles , G Serafeim
Corporate and integrated reporting: A functional perspective. Corporate (Stewardship) Organizing for Sustainable Effectiveness , volume 5 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2015
J C Jensen , N Berg
Determinants of traditional sustainability reporting versus integrated reporting
An Institutionalist Approach. Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 21 , issue 5 , p. 299 - 316 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,325
RANK
267,661
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies