Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harmonization of Accounting Standards in India

Mudra: Journal of Finance and Accounting, Volume 6, Issue 1, January-June, pp. 84-96, 2019

13 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2019

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

Divyashree M. S.

Government First Grade College

Date Written: June 30, 2019

Abstract

Accounting is the science of communicating the financial information of the business organization in an organized manner. Before communicating the business information it is necessary to record the actual business results in a scientific manner so as to ensure the true and fair view of the transactions. Financial information disclosed with true and fair state will get absolute confidence from various stakeholders. India is also one of the countries which is recognized at the global level by initiating IFRS based accounting standards from the year 2016 onwards by the government of India with the help of MCA and ICAI and started to mandate these standards for Indian companies in a phased manner. The implementation of this IFRS based Indian Accounting standards i.e. IND AS had created a great opportunity to academicians, regulatory authorities and business houses to carry the research for the advancement of the financial reporting system in India. So the present study is intended to analyze the role of IND AS in harmonizing accounting standards in the Indian scenario.

Keywords: Harmonization of accounting standards; IFRS; IND AS

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

N, Abhishek and M. S., Divyashree, Harmonization of Accounting Standards in India (June 30, 2019). Mudra: Journal of Finance and Accounting, Volume 6, Issue 1, January-June, pp. 84-96, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P Chand , M White
A critique of the influence of globalization and convergence of accounting standards in Fiji
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 605 - 622 Posted: 2007
Crossref
V Chouhan
Global convergence of accounting standard and Indian perspective
International Journal of Research in Finance & Marketing , volume 3 , issue 7 , p. 5 - 12 Posted: 2013
B J Epstein
The economic effects of IFRS adoption
The CPA Journal , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 26 - 31 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,851
RANK
221,315
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies