Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Diffusion Theory, National Corruption and IFRS Adoption around the World

Forthcoming, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation

52 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2019

Moataz El-Helaly

School of Business, The American University in Cairo

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Manar Al-Gazzar

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 24, 2019

Abstract

International financial reporting standards (IFRS) have been widely adopted around the world. However, whilst there is a lot of evidence on the economic consequences of IFRS adoption (e.g., foreign direct investments; development of financial markets; financial accounting quality; access to capital; and stock market liquidity), especially at the firm-level, few studies examine the national factors that may impede or facilitate the adoption of IFRS at the country-level. This paper seeks to make two new contributions to the extant international accounting literature by examining the influence of national corruption on the (i) speed and (ii) extent of IFRS adoption around the world. Relying on Rogers’ (1962) theory on diffusions of innovation (i.e., early adopters, early majority, late majority, and laggards), this study uses data relating to 89 non-EU countries, collected over the 2003–2014 period. Our proposition is based on theoretical and empirical evidence that suggests that country-level IFRS adoption decisions are a function of a country’s institutional environment, such as the level of corruption. The findings show that the level (control) of corruption is negatively (positively) associated with a country’s (i) speed and (ii) extent of IFRS adoption.

Suggested Citation:

El-Helaly, Moataz and Ntim, Collins G. and Al-Gazzar, Manar, Diffusion Theory, National Corruption and IFRS Adoption around the World (October 24, 2019). Forthcoming, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3474863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 Posted: 2013
B K Agyei-Mensah
Does the corruption level of a country affected listed firms' IFRS 7 risk disclosure compliance? Corporate Governance
The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 727 - 747 Posted: 2017
S Anokhin , W S Schulze
Entrepreneurship, innovation and corruption
Journal of Business Venturing , volume 24 , issue 5 , p. 465 - 476 Posted: 2008
A Argandona
The United Nations convention against corruption and its impact on international companies
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 74 , p. 481 - 496 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,398
RANK
266,613
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies