Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of IFRS Compliance in Africa: Analysis of Stakeholder Attributes

Tawiah, V. & Boolaky P. (2019). Determinants of IFRS compliance in Africa: analysis of Stakeholder Attributes. International Journal of Accounting & Information Management Vol. 27 (4), pp 573-599.

26 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2019

Vincent Tawiah

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; Griffith University; University of Cape Coast; Dublin City University Business School

Pran Boolaky

Griffith University - Griffith Business School

Date Written: October 31, 2019

Abstract

Purpose: This paper examines the drivers of companies’ compliance with IFRS using the stakeholder salience theory.

Research Methods: We have used panel data from 205 companies to examine the IFRS compliance level across 13 African countries. Our study has also established the relationship between stakeholders’ attributes and firms’ compliance with IFRS.

Findings: On IFRS compliance, we found that the average compliance score among the companies over the period was 73.09% with a minimum score of 62.86% and maximum of 85.61%. We found a significant positive association between audit committee competence (ACC) and compliance and found the same for chartered accountants on board (AOB). There is less compliance with the latest standards, such as IFRS 3, 7, and 13. Also, IAS 17, 19, 36, and 37 are problematic across the sample. We also found that compliance has been increasing over the years.

Practical implications: For companies, our studies provide empirical evidence on the importance of having chartered accountants’ corporate boards as well as competent audit committees involved in ensuring high compliance with IFRS. Our findings also provide valuable information for professional accounting organizations on the role of its members (chartered accountants) in the effectiveness of IFRS compliance.

Value/Contribution: This study complements and updates prior studies on IFRS compliance with findings from Africa, a region that has been neglected in the literature.

It provides empirical evidence on the importance of chartered accountants sitting on corporate boards in ensuring high compliance with IFRS.

Keywords: Africa, Compliance, IFRS, Stakeholder salience

Suggested Citation:

Tawiah, Vincent and Tawiah, Vincent and Boolaky, Pran, Determinants of IFRS Compliance in Africa: Analysis of Stakeholder Attributes (October 31, 2019). Tawiah, V. & Boolaky P. (2019). Determinants of IFRS compliance in Africa: analysis of Stakeholder Attributes. International Journal of Accounting & Information Management Vol. 27 (4), pp 573-599., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3478702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
M Abdullah , L Evans , I Fraser , I Tsalavoutas
IFRS mandatory disclosures in Malaysia: the influence of family control and the value (ir)relevance of compliance levels
Accounting Forum , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 328 - 348 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K Ahmed , M Ali
Has the harmonisation of accounting practices improved? Evidence from South Asia
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 327 - 348 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Al-Mutawaa , A M Hewaidy
Disclosure level and compliance with IFRSs: An empirical investigation of Kuwaiti companies
International Business & Economics Research Journal , volume 9 , p. 33 - 49 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Al-Akra , Eddie , A Ali , J
The influence of the introduction of accounting disclosure regulation on mandatory disclosure compliance: evidence from Jordan
The British Accounting Review , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 170 - 186 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,417
RANK
226,842
3 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies