Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loan Loss Provisioning and Market Discipline: Evidence from the IFRS 9 Adoption

38 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2019 Last revised: 13 Apr 2020

Albian Albrahimi

Les Roches Global Hospitality Education

Date Written: November 15, 2019

Abstract

IFRS 9 introduced a new impairment model based on expected credit losses (ECL) rather than incurred losses to better reflect changes in the credit quality of financial instruments. This paper examines the impact of the ECL model on the predictability of loan loss provisions (LLP) and potential consequences on market discipline. Specifically, I first investigate whether the association between recognized loan loss provisions and objective determinants of the incurred loss model (i.e., changes in non-performing loans and the level of non-performing loans) decreases after the introduction of IFRS 9. Next, I examine whether the arguably less objective LLP under IFRS 9 obscure market participants' ability to monitor the banks’ risk-taking incentives. The empirical findings suggest a decrease in the association between loan loss provisions and the determinants of the incurred loss model in the post-IFRS 9 period, i.e., LLP are based less on objective determinants after IFRS adoption. Furthermore, I find a decrease in the sensitivity of leverage to changes in risk in the post-adoption period of IFRS 9, indicating an attenuated market discipline over risk-taking of banks. The results are mainly driven by banks in countries that allow more smoothing through loan loss provisions as opposed to banks in countries that are more forward-looking. In contrast, I find no changes in the determinants of LLP and market discipline for the benchmark sample of U.S. banks, which were not subject to the same accounting change during the sample period.

Keywords: IFRS 9 adoption, impairment, loan loss provision, expected credit loss, market discipline

JEL Classification: G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Albrahimi, Albian, Loan Loss Provisioning and Market Discipline: Evidence from the IFRS 9 Adoption (November 15, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3488058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3488058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: A Reexamination of Capital Management, Earnings Management and Signaling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Guidance on accounting for expected credit losses. Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Posted: 2015
A Beatty , S Chamberlain , J Magliolo
Managing Financial Reports of Commercial Banks: The Influence of Taxes, Regulatory Capital, and Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 33 , p. 231 - 261 Posted: 1995
Crossref
A Beatty , B Ke , K Petroni , R
Earnings Management to Avoid Earnings Declines across Publicly and Privately Held Banks
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 547 - 70 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
994
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,592
RANK
52,785
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies