Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explaining accruals quality over time

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2019 Last revised: 23 Dec 2022

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Jenna D'Adduzio

Oregon State University - College of Business

Karen K. Nelson

Texas Christian University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 17, 2022

Abstract

We provide evidence that accruals quality in the U.S. is generally improving since 2000, following a decade of decline during the 1990s. Our results indicate that both the initial decline in accruals quality and the subsequent reversal can be explained by an inverse relation with operating cash flow volatility. Further, even though patterns of cash flow volatility and accruals quality vary in different regions of the world and relative to the U.S., we find evidence of an inverse relation between accruals quality and cash flow volatility globally. We corroborate our main results in a battery of additional tests, which also indicate that our results are not attributable to other explanations. Overall, our evidence challenges conventional wisdom and suggests that concerns about a sustained decline in accruals quality over time are unwarranted.

Keywords: accruals quality, cash flow volatility

JEL Classification: M21, M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Theodore E. and D'Adduzio, Jenna and Nelson, Karen K., Explaining accruals quality over time (September 17, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3490758 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3490758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagonlizer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
Account. Rev , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
R Ball , X Li , L Shivakumar
Contractibility and transparency of financial statement information prepared under IFRS: Evidence from debt contracts around IFRS adoption
J. Account. Res , volume 53 , p. 915 - 963 Posted: 2015
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How does financial reporting quality relate to investment efficiency?
J. Account. Econ , volume 48 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
M W Brandt , A Brav , J R Graham , A Kumar
The idiosyncratic volatility puzzle: time trend or speculative episodes?
Rev. Fin. Stud , volume 22 , p. 863 - 899 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
515
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,603
RANK
125,115
8 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies