Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for the Profits of Multinational Enterprises: Double Counting and Misattribution of Foreign Affiliate Income

95 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2019 Last revised: 5 May 2024

Jennifer Blouin

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

Given the perception that multinational enterprises (MNEs) engage in extensive tax
planning, ending base erosion and profit shifting activity is a priority on many national agendas.
Yet the actual level of such activity is subject to debate. In this paper, we provide guidance on how
to accurately measure country-level MNE income using the datasets commonly used in research
on profit shifting. This issue is of global concern, as any economic data that reports profits by
jurisdiction must use an established accounting method to report the activity of the MNEs’
indirectly owned foreign affiliates. We explain how the accounting method used could lead a
researcher to double count income or to attribute it to the wrong jurisdiction. Such errors not only
affect measures of the MNEs’ country-level profits, but also bias researchers’ estimates of the
sensitivity of income to taxes. Although we focus our analysis on data from the U.S. Bureau of
Economic Analysis (BEA), we illustrate the consequences of such mismeasurement across a
variety of studies relying on a variety of data sources.

Keywords: base erosion and profit shifting, measurement, accounting, foreign direct investment

JEL Classification: H32, M41, O50

Suggested Citation:

Blouin, Jennifer and Robinson, Leslie, Accounting for the Profits of Multinational Enterprises: Double Counting and Misattribution of Foreign Affiliate Income (October 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3491451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3491451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Rosanne Altshuler , Harry Grubert
Governments and Multinational Corporations in the Race to the Bottom
, volume 41 , issue 5 , p. 459 - 474 Posted: 2006
Sebastian Beer , Ruud De Mooij , Li Liu
International Corporate Tax Avoidance: A review of the channels, magnitudes, and blind spots
IMF Working , issue 168 Posted: 2018
Jennifer Blouin , Linda Krull
Does Tax Planning Effect Organizational Complexity: Evidence from Check-the-Box Posted: 2019
Maria Borga , Raymond Mataloni
Direct Investment Positions for 2000: Country and Industry Detail
Survey of Current Business , p. 16 - 29 Posted: 2001-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,432
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,858
RANK
7,830
56 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies