Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Extent of Corporate Voluntary Disclosure in Saudi Arabia before and after IFRS Adoption

Alsulayhim, N 2019, ‘Analysis of the Extent of Corporate Voluntary Disclosure in Saudi Arabia before and after IFRS Adoption', VUBS HDR 2019: Business School Higher Degree by Research Conference, Victoria University, Melbourne, 26 Nov, 2019, pp. 24.

Posted: 13 Dec 2019

Nasser Alsulayhim

Institute of Public Administration, Riyadh

Date Written: November 26, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to assess and analyze the extent of corporate voluntary disclosure (VD) in the annual reports of companies listed on the Saudi Arabian Stock Exchange, and to compare the VD levels before and after the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). By applying content analysis and using a self-constructed index, the study has measured the extent of six VD categories in 240 annual reports from 2015 and 2017 that represent 120 listed non-financial companies. Descriptive statistics were calculated to analyze the sample’s VD extent. Wilcoxon and Friedman ranking tests were applied to investigate any statistically significant changes in VD between these two years. The results show that the average VD in Saudi Arabia is 32.5%. However, the average disclosure differs across various VD categories ranging from 12.8% to 56.2%. Additionally, there is a statistically significant increase in the average VD and all its categories from 2015 to 2017. However, the level of VD in Saudi Arabia is still low compared to developed countries. Saudi Arabia’s Capital Market Authority (CMA) should enforce listed companies to produce separate sustainability reports. This may help to enhance the level of VD among listed companies. This study is the first to investigate and compare the extent of various categories of VD in Saudi Arabia before and after the implementation of IFRS. As such, the study contributes to our knowledge on this subject by providing recent and up-to-date data about VD after many legislative and regulatory changes have taken place in Saudi Arabia.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, Sustinability reporting, Corporate Trancperancy, IFRS, Saudi Arabia

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Alsulayhim, Nasser, Analysis of the Extent of Corporate Voluntary Disclosure in Saudi Arabia before and after IFRS Adoption (November 26, 2019). Alsulayhim, N 2019, ‘Analysis of the Extent of Corporate Voluntary Disclosure in Saudi Arabia before and after IFRS Adoption', VUBS HDR 2019: Business School Higher Degree by Research Conference, Victoria University, Melbourne, 26 Nov, 2019, pp. 24., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3493528
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies