Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monitoring of Fair Value Reliability by Third-Party Specialists: A Review and Integration of Empirical Research

40 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2019 Last revised: 12 Mar 2020

Kyrre Kjellevold

University of South-Eastern Norway USN School of Business; Norwegian School of Economics (NHH), Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: March 11, 2020

Abstract

This paper reviews the academic literature on the effectiveness of third-party specialists in monitoring the reliability of fair value measurements (FVMs). Management may lack the necessary valuation expertise for measuring fair values and has been shown to provide biased FVMs. The use of third-party specialists may compensate for these deficiencies. By integrating findings in the accounting, economics, and finance literature, this review provides novel insights into the monitoring role of third-party specialists and suggests directions for future research. Overall, the literature shows that third-party specialists are associated with more reliable FVMs across both financial- and nonfinancial assets or liabilities, supporting the notion that third-party specialists perform a valuable role in improving the reliability of FVMs and reducing investors’ information risk. Furthermore, research suggests third-party specialists monitoring effectiveness interact with corporate governance mechanisms such as independent board of directors, but financial statement audits seem to only marginally affect the reliability of FVMs above the contribution of third-party specialists. Third-party specialists monitoring effectiveness may, however, be moderated by specialists’ economic incentives and by experienced client pressure to inflate FVMs. Future research will benefit from gaining a better understanding of specialists’ economic incentives and how these influence specialists’ monitoring effectiveness, as well as investigate how specialists’ monitoring role interacts with relevant corporate governance mechanisms.

Keywords: Fair value, third-party specialists, specialists, management

JEL Classification: G10, G20, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kjellevold, Kyrre, Monitoring of Fair Value Reliability by Third-Party Specialists: A Review and Integration of Empirical Research (March 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3496001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3496001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
Jaehan Ahn , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
Auditor Task-Specific Expertise: The Case of Fair Value Accounting
Accounting Review, Forthcoming Pages: 54 Posted: 12 Jun 2018 Last revised: 9 Aug 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Anantharaman
The role of specialists in financial reporting: Evidence from pension accounting
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 1261 - 1306 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Antle
Auditor independence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1984
Crossref
A V Banerjee
A simple model of herd behavior
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 107 , issue 3 , p. 797 - 817 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Kyrre Kjellevold
Delegating the Monitoring of Fair Value Measurements: A Field Study of Company Specialists and Audit Partners
Posted: 22 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 20 May 2020 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
RANK
394,952
1 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies