Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does IFRS Convergence Really Increase Accounting Qualities? Emerging Market Evidence

Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 24, No. 48, 2019

16 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2019

Fuad Fuad

Diponegoro University

Agung Juliarto

Diponegoro University - Economics and Business Faculty

Puji Harto

Diponegoro University - Economics and Business Faculty

Date Written: December 5, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – This study aims to examine whether International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) convergence process adds value to the accounting quality dimensions, including accruals quality, earnings smoothing, timely loss recognition and earnings persistence.

Design/methodology/approach – It analyzes the hypothesis of accounting quality changes in post-IFRS convergence by using the univariate and multivariate statistics. Particularly, the authors rely on panel data analyses using industrial companies’ data from 2008 until 2014, comprising 3,861 firm-years observations, in Indonesia.

Findings – The results indicate that there is no conclusive evidence that all accounting quality dimensions including accruals quality,earnings smoothing, timely loss recognition and earnings persistence increased in post-IFRS convergence.

Practical implications – The findings of this study may help regulators and standard setters to consider future adoption of IFRS, mostly to figure out the best “formula” to increase the usefulness of accounting information in post-IFRS convergence.

Originality/value – Rather than doing piecemeal work, the current study focuses on IFRS convergence on a broader aspect of accounting quality dimensions. It also focuses on the convergence process of IFRS as an alternative of full adoption, which has been the focus of many research studies.


Keywords: IFRS convergence, Accounting quality, Accruals, Earnings smoothings, Timely loss recognition, Earnings persistence

JEL Classification: C12, C52, F37, G28

Suggested Citation:

Fuad, Fuad and Juliarto, Agung and Harto, Puji, Does IFRS Convergence Really Increase Accounting Qualities? Emerging Market Evidence (December 5, 2019). Journal of Economics, Finance & Administrative Science, Vol. 24, No. 48, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3499214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading, and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improveaccounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2012
Crossref
K Ahmed , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A meta analysis of IFRS adoption effects
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
816
RANK
663,174
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies