Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Notes Reporting Quality - A Conceptualization and Empirical Analysis of Financial Reporting Quality Using the Example of Notes Reporting on Intangible Assets Under IFRS

292 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2020

Tobias Nell

Freiberg University of Mining and Technology

Date Written: December 10, 2019

Abstract

For many years, international financial reporting – and in particular the notes reporting – has been criticized in practice and academia for failing to provide information that is appropriate for its intended users. This criticism points to deficits with regard to the content and presentation and, thus, to the overall quality of the notes reporting. However, this criticism is predominantly anecdotal in nature as there is, as yet, scarcely any valid scientific evidence that supports these claims. This work addresses this research gap by elaborating what (notes) reporting quality is, what dimensions it consists of (conceptualization), how these dimensions can be measured (operationalization) and how they are empirically manifested (empirical evidence). For the latent construct of (notes) reporting quality, a formative measuring instrument to be used in an integrative content analysis is developed with which both dimensions of (notes) reporting quality – a content dimension (e.g., relevance) and a formal dimension (e.g., diction/readability) – can be measured and analyzed. This measuring instrument is validated both theoretically (argumentative reflection) and empirically (testing of hypotheses derivable from the underlying theories). The subsequent analysis of the notes reporting quality of a representative sample of German firms reveals that the above-mentioned criticism is well founded. Furthermore, the results point out both what specific deficits exist and where. The results of this work – the conceptualization, the operationalization and the empirical evidence – together form a starting point for developing, in the context of the (notes) reporting and its quality, valid insights/knowledge in research, ‘best practice’ solutions in practice and conceptually sound and target-oriented solutions in regulation.

Keywords: Reporting Quality, Information Quality, Disclosure Quality, Financial Reporting, Financial Notes Reporting, Content Analysis, Accounting Research

JEL Classification: M41, Y40, C81

Suggested Citation:

Nell, Tobias, Financial Notes Reporting Quality - A Conceptualization and Empirical Analysis of Financial Reporting Quality Using the Example of Notes Reporting on Intangible Assets Under IFRS (December 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3501589 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3501589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
337 References
Coenenberg
B. Bilanzbewertung" (pp
E. Bilanzierung von immateriellem Vermögen nach IFRS , p. 688 - 707 Posted: 2014
Pellens
Kapitel 8: Wertminderung im Anlagevermögen
Kapitel , volume 9 , p. 774 - 781 Posted: 2014
Dax-Konzerne Ungeschminkt
Handelsblatt From the series
Current topics of international financial reporting , volume 26 Posted: 2015
Coenenberg
Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,223
RANK
182,473
2 Citations
337 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies