Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence in Motion: A Review of Fair Value Levels' Relevance

37 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2020 Last revised: 30 Mar 2021

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Ahmad Hammami

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Zhongwei Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Michel Magnan

Concordia University - Department of Accountancy

Rucsandra Moldovan

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Date Written: December 20, 2020

Abstract

The IFRS 13 post-implementation review by the IASB motivates our investigation on the value relevance of fair value (FV) measurement hierarchy (i.e. level 1, level 2, and level 3). First, using a meta-analysis, which allows us to summarize inconsistent empirical findings, we synthesize studies on the value relevance of the FV hierarchy. Overall, value relevance is lower for level 3 than for levels 1 and 2, but it increases over time. In non-U.S. studies, we note lower value relevance across all levels of FV assets. Underlying asset fundamentals, model risk, and measurement process complexity may contribute to this value relevance gap. Second, from interviews with professionals from financial institutions, we note that, in practice, there has been extensive learning about FV accounting since the 2007‒9 Financial Crisis and a formalization of the valuation process that the academic literature has yet to fully recognize. We thus highlight conceptual and methodological issues and areas for research with practical implications.

Keywords: Fair value hierarchy; Fair value measurement; Meta-analysis; Valuation process; Fair value audit; IFRS 13; SFAS 157; ASC 820

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Filip, Andrei and Hammami, Ahmad and Huang, Zhongwei and Jeny, Anne and Magnan, Michel and Moldovan, Rucsandra, Convergence in Motion: A Review of Fair Value Levels' Relevance (December 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3504756 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3504756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
S Adwan
Value relevance of IFRS and the effect of the financial crisis: Evidence from European financial firms Posted: 2016
A M Aloe , C G Thompson
The synthesis of partial effect sizes
Journal of the Society for Social Work and Research , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 390 - 405 Posted: 2013
Crossref
P André , A Cazavan-Jeny , W Dick , C Richard , P Walton
Fair Value Accounting and the Banking Crisis in 2008: Shooting the Messenger
Accounting in Europe , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D R Ayres
Fair value disclosures of level three assets and credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 6 , p. 635 - 653 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,914
RANK
201,537
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies