Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The State of IFRS in Africa

Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, 2019

Posted: 20 May 2020

Vincent Tawiah

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; Griffith University; University of Cape Coast; Dublin City University Business School

Date Written: December 18, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to appraise existing literature on International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Africa. It covers all 54 African countries and their membership in regional and international accounting bodies.

Design/methodology/approach – This paper uses qualitative research methods, including review and synthesis of a variety of archival materials.

Findings – Unlike the numerous variations in IFRS adoption on other continents, IFRS countries in Africa have adopted the standards as issued by International Accounting Standard Board (IASB). However, most countries are slow to implement the ROSC (AA) recommendations for IFRS adoption due to lack of institutional and professional capacity. With regards to the unintended consequences, IFRS adoption has made international professional qualifications such as Association of Certified Chartered Accountants popular in Africa; hence, national accounting qualifications are not attractive to prospective accountants. Similarly, IFRS adoption has created a competitive advantage for the Big4 audit firms because companies in IFRS countries prefer the services of the Big4 to that of the local audit firms.

Originality/value – It is concluded that international organisations that recommend IFRS to Africa, such as the IFRS foundation, IMF and World Bank, should build the sustainable professional and institutional capacity of the countries before persuading them to adopt IFRS, because in Africa, adopting a law is easy but operationalising it has always been the challenge.

Keywords: Africa, IFRS, Implementation, Adoption, Consequence

Suggested Citation:

Tawiah, Vincent and Tawiah, Vincent, The State of IFRS in Africa (December 18, 2019). Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3505745
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
679
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies