Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Managerial Discretion in Africa: Evidence from Acquired Intangible Assets Under IFRS 3

International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2020

Abongeh A. Tunyi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dimu Ehalaiye

Massey University - School of Accountancy

Ernest Gyapong

Massey University; Massey University

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: December 7, 2019

Abstract

The paper examines the value of managerial discretion in financial reporting by exploring the value relevance of intangible assets acquired in business combinations (AIA) before and after the 2008 International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 3 amendment. The 2008 IFRS 3 amendment gave managers the discretion to recognize previously unrecognized intangibles in the target firm, hence, we posit that if managerial discretion improves the quality of financial reporting, we should observe an increase in the value relevance of AIA after the amendment. Our empirical analysis is based on a dataset of 603 mergers announced between 2004 to 2016, across 7 African countries. Consistent with our main hypothesis, we find that the value relevance of AIA, predominantly acquired goodwill (AGW), increased after the amendment, suggesting that managerial discretion improves the quality of financial information. Importantly, we highlight a caveat to this argument by showing that the value of discretion is moderated by the underlying institutional quality, with the value relevance of AIA being greater in high-quality institutional contexts. Our findings are robust to alternative measures of AIA, alternative models for testing value relevance and various controls for endogeneity. Overall, our findings have important implications for accounting standard-setters, governments, investors and practitioners.

Keywords: Managerial discretion, IFRS 3, acquired intangible assets, business combinations

JEL Classification: M14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Tunyi, Abongeh A. and Ehalaiye, Dimu and Gyapong, Ernest and Gyapong, Ernest and Ntim, Collins G., The Value of Managerial Discretion in Africa: Evidence from Acquired Intangible Assets Under IFRS 3 (December 7, 2019). International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512587 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512587
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
T Abrahams , B K Sidhu
The role of R&D capitalisations in firm valuation and perfor mance measurement
Australian Journal of Management , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 183 Posted: 1998
Crossref
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting discretion in goodwill impairments: Uk evidence
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
Crossref
N Aktas , E Croci , D Petmezas
Is working capital management valueenhancing? Evidence from firm performance and investments
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 30 , p. 98 - 113 Posted: 2015
Crossref
F A Alali , P S Foote
The value relevance of international financial reporting standards: Empirical evidence in an emerging market. The international journal of accounting , volume 47 , p. 85 - 108 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,501
RANK
484,258
2 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies