Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Assessment of How Industry 4.0 Technology is Transforming Audit Landscape and Business Models.

International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 3, No. 10, 2019

6 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2020

Bashir Babatunde Alao

Librod Energy Services Limited

Oladejo Lukman Gbolagade

Federal University Dutsin‐Ma

Date Written: October 31, 2019

Abstract

This paper aims to explore the impact of the latest advances in technology on audit profession and business models. Specifically, the study examined the effects and usage of the technologies that encompass Industry 4.0 upon the audit process. The study makes use of a qualitative research approach, which is based on a literature review and survey results from different research and consulting companies publications. The literature is primarily sourced from Professional Accounting bodies, the Big 4 publications, Newspapers publications, Google Scholars etc. The finding revealed that audit profession is at an important crossroads, as advances in technology and the massive proliferation of available information have created a new landscape for financial reporting and opening up the needs for a new skill sets that are relevant to the industry now and in the future. Therefore, it is imperative that those in the audit and finance profession invest in understanding and developing these technologies to benefit their respective sectors.

Keywords: Industry 4.0 Technology, audit profession and business models

Suggested Citation:

Alao, Bashir Babatunde and Gbolagade, Oladejo Lukman, An Assessment of How Industry 4.0 Technology is Transforming Audit Landscape and Business Models. (October 31, 2019). International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 3, No. 10, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Afaq Ahmed
Industry 4.0 Technology Is Transforming the Landscape of Doing Business Posted: 2018
imple-explanation-internet-things-that-anyone-canunderstand/#7d647c481d09
Jun Dai
Three essays on audit technology: Audit 4.0, Blockchain, and audit APP. PhD research dissertation, Rutgers Posted: 2017
Jun Dai , Vasarhelyi Miklos
Imagineering Audit 4.0
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 13 , issue 1 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,916
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,066
RANK
19,967
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies