Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hierarchy and Performance of Analyst Teams

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2020

Wen He

Monash University

Andrew B. Jackson

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Chao Kevin Li

The University of Adelaide

Date Written: January 2020

Abstract

We examine the effect of hierarchy on analyst teams’ performance using a large sample of financial analysts from China. Hierarchy, defined as the disparity in power or status within a group, which we operationalise as the difference in experience between the senior and junior analyst in a team, is an important aspect of team structure that could affect team performance. We find that analyst teams with a hierarchy outperform flat teams (teams without a clear hierarchy). Specifically, hierarchical teams issue forecasts with higher accuracy, less optimism bias, less co-movement with the consensus, and stronger investor reactions. The results remain robust after we control for a number of firm and analyst characteristics and fixed effects. Further analysis shows that working in a hierarchical team helps junior analysts improve their individual forecasts for other firms, and senior analysts also benefit from working with junior analysts in hierarchical teams. Our results provide important insights into understanding the effect of team structure on the performance of analyst teams who issue majority of earnings forecasts.

Keywords: Groups, teamwork, group hierarchy, analyst earnings forecasts

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

He, Wen and Jackson, Andrew B. and Li, Chao, Hierarchy and Performance of Analyst Teams (January 2020). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514981 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3514981
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The financial reporting environment: Review of the recent literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Bloom
The performance effects of pay dispersion on individuals and organizations
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , p. 25 - 40 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Mark T Bradshaw
Analysts’ Forecasts: What Do We Know after Decades of Work?
Pages: 55 Posted: 8 Jul 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K Brightbill
Do analyst teams issue higher quality forecasts? Evidence from analyst reports. Working paper Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Chang He , Chao Li , Gary S. Monroe , Yi Si
Diversity of Signing Auditors and Audit Quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming · 55 Pages · Posted: 5 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 30 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 747
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,154
RANK
429,779
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies