Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of the Environmental Factors on the Adoption of the International Accounting System IAS/IFRS: Case of Iraq

Journal of Accounting, Finance and Auditing Studies 6/1 (2020): 66-85

20 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2020

Salam A. Al-Nasrawi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Thabit Thabit

Ninevah University

Date Written: January 2, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This research aims to study the impact of local environmental factors on the adoption of International Accounting system in Iraq. So the main objective of the research can be the evaluation of the role of local environmental factors in selecting the best method to adopt International Accounting Standards (IAS), and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).

Design/methodology/approach: The researchers prepared a questionnaire contains 28 paragraphs which were coded and divided into 7 parts showing the independent variables of the study (the environmental factors) and the dependent variable (the adoption of
IAS/IFRS)

Findings: The results of the research show that the local environment factors can effect on the choice of the country to adopt the best method of IAS/IFRS adoption, and the statistical analysis results show that there is a very good level of agreement for the participants about the effect of local environment factors on the adoption of IAS/IFRS.

Practical implications: The research offers insights to the need to activate national standards and principles that are appropriate to the local environment in order to adapt with the requirements of IAS/IFRS adoption.

Originality/value: The research presents significant pragmatic evidence in terms of its meticulous approach towards checking the robustness of results.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Local Environmental Factors, International Federation of Accountants, International Accounting Standards Committee.

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Al-Nasrawi, Salam A. and Thabit, Thabit, The Influence of the Environmental Factors on the Adoption of the International Accounting System IAS/IFRS: Case of Iraq (January 2, 2020). Journal of Accounting, Finance and Auditing Studies 6/1 (2020): 66-85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3514438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3514438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R Bushman , A Smith
Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 32 , issue 1-3 , p. 237 - 333 Posted: 2001
Crossref
F Choi , G Meek
International Accounting (6th b Posted: 2008
E A Hassan , M Rankin , W Lu
The Development of Accounting Regulation in Iraq and the IFRS Adoption Decision: An Institutional Perspective
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 49 , p. 371 - 390 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P Healy , K Palepu
Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue 1-3 , p. 405 - 440 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
762
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,410
RANK
75,850
6 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Environment eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies