Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Consequences and Underlying Mechanisms Of Implementing Common Accounting Standards

Accounting Horizons - forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2020 Last revised: 9 Aug 2025

Petrus (Petri) Ferreira

Rice University

Xu Jiang

Duke University

Date Written: January 1, 2023

Abstract

We empirically examine the channels through which the implementation of common accounting standards affect liquidity. Theories on common accounting standard adoption (e.g., Gao et al. 2019) suggest two channels through which a common standard can affect liquidity: the precision channel (i.e., the change in the accounting report's ability to reflect underlying economic events) and the network channel (i.e., the increase in the number of traders who are able to understand the accounting report – the increase in the number of informed traders). The overall effect on liquidity depends on the net effect of those two channels and is ultimately an empirical question. We use the adoption of new revenue standard (ASC 606) to test the analytical framework and find that overall there is an increase in liquidity associated with ASC 606. Consistent with theory, we find that the increase in liquidity is the highest for firms that experience an increase in both precision and the number of informed traders, followed by firms that experience an increase in either precision or the number of informed traders but not both. In contrast, firms that experience an increase in neither precision nor the number of informed traders do not experience an increase in liquidity. In other words, firms that experience merely an increase disclosure under ASC 606 do not necessarily experience an increase in liquidity if neither the precision nor the network channel is affected.

Keywords: Revenue recognition, FASB, liquidity, comparability, ASC 606, ASU 2014-09

JEL Classification: D82, G00, G14, G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ferreira, Petrus H. and Jiang, Xu, The Economic Consequences and Underlying Mechanisms Of Implementing Common Accounting Standards (January 1, 2023). Accounting Horizons - forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3522765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3522765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J Ahn , U Hoitash , R Schmardebeck
The Informativeness of SAB 74 Disclosures for Accounting Standard Adoption Outcomes: Evidence from ASC 606
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2021
B K Akins , J Ng , R S Verdi
Investor Competition over Information and the Pricing of Information Asymmetry
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 58 Posted: 2012
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
K Back , S Baruch
Information in securities markets: Kyle meets Glosten and Milgrom , volume 72 , p. 433 - 465 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
793
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,464
RANK
71,891
8 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies