Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Level of Adoption of the International Accounting Standard 34 (IAS 34.): The Case of Bahrain Listed Companies

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.1 (2020)

10 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2020

Abdulla A. Rahman Ali

University of Bahrain

Date Written: January 27, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this study to explore the level of adoption of the International Accounting Standard 34 (IAS 34) in the preparation of interim reports by listed companies on Bahrain Stock Exchange (BSE). The data used in this exploratory study were based largely on information already published in the interim financial reports that are available at Bahrain Stock Exchange and on the websites of the listed companies. Neither IAS 34, nor does the national accounting legislation in Bahrain require firms to prepare interim financial statements . However, as elsewhere around the globe, companies in Bahrain prepare interim financial reports in compliance with the IAS 34. Not least because it is required for a company to be listed on Bahrain Stock Exchange (BSE). In addition, in order to maintain investor confidence, listed companies often exert considerable effort to disclose all necessary information that shows their financial position and ability to continue as a going concern through preparing more timely, costly interim reports. The results of this exploration reveal that the listed companies actually comply with the requirements of IAS 34, regardless of the high cost involved.

Keywords: International Accounting Standard 34 (IAS, 34) Bahrain Stock Exchange (BSE), Interim Financial Report

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Abdulla A. Rahman, The Level of Adoption of the International Accounting Standard 34 (IAS 34.): The Case of Bahrain Listed Companies (January 27, 2020). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.3 No.1 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3525671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , J Espejot
Expectations Data and the Predictive Value of Interim Reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1978
Crossref
R Al-Hamadeen , S Badran
Nature and Determinants of CSR Disclosure: Experience of the Jordanian Public Shareholding Companies
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 6 , issue 13 , p. 18 - 34 Posted: 2014
Malek Ahmad Alsharairi , Riyadh Jasim Al-Abdullah
The Impact of Adopting IASs on the Jordanian Environment: The Perspective of Accountants, Auditors and Academicians 'An Exploratory Study'
International Conference on Business Globalization: Challenges and Opportunities in the 21st Centry Pages: 36 Posted: 19 Nov 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
N S Bayoud , M Kavanagh , G Slaughter
Factors Influencing Levels of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure by Libyan Firms: A Mixed Study
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 4 , issue 4 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
954
RANK
475,660
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies