Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CDS Channels of Influence on Discretionary Accruals

50 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2020

Hao Cheng

Singapore Management University

Kian Guan Lim

Singapore Management University

Date Written: January 25, 2020

Abstract

This paper finds that the initiation of trading in credit default swaps (CDS) improves earnings quality by reducing absolute abnormal earnings accruals through specific channels in CDS firms. CDS initiation brought about more private information discovery via financial analysts, cross-market speculators, and hedgers. New results indicate that the channels of reduction in discretionary accruals are through a firm's high accounts payable and low cash holdings related to negative accruals and trade credit exposures. The high discretionary accruals compel the firm to improve cash holdings, cash flows, and working capital when probability of default increases. In the longer run, this leads to higher EPS and improved firm value. Thus the generation of public information via CDS market reduces information asymmetry in the context of the trade credit market and enforces greater discipline in discretionary accounts reporting.

Keywords: Credit default swaps, Earnings quality, Absolute abnormal earnings accruals, Trade credit exposures, Risk Management

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Hao and Lim, Kian Guan, CDS Channels of Influence on Discretionary Accruals (January 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3525335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3525335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
B Panel
Low |EQ2| High |EQ2| Low |EQ2| High |EQ2|
Crossref
D References Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading, and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
V V Acharya , L H Pedersen
Asset pricing with liquidity risk
Journal of financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 2 , p. 375 - 410 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Navneet Arora , Scott Anthony Richardson , Ayse Irem Tuna
Asset Measurement Uncertainty and Credit Term Structure
Pages: 47 Posted: 6 Apr 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
947
RANK
631,616
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies