Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
R&D Disclosures and Capitalization Under IAS 38 – Evidence on the Interplay Between National Institutional Regulations and IFRS Adoption

Forthcoming in: Journal of International Accounting Research

56 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2020

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Thomas List

University of Augsburg

Nadine Zbiegly

University of Augsburg

Date Written: January 07, 2020

Abstract

Based on the notion that the effects of IFRS adoption are dependent on changes in the institutional environment, this paper analyses the effects of one prominent feature of IFRS: the accounting for research and development (R&D) under IAS 38. In our setting, IFRS adoption is accompanied by a change in the national institutional environment of R&D disclosure in the management commentary. National disclosure regulations can make R&D capitalization more informative when investors are skeptical of capitalization due to reliability concerns. We find that firms with higher levels of R&D disclosures that are not suspect of earnings management generally have lower cost of capital and higher market values. Their cost of capital increase and market values decrease with higher R&D capitalization, indicating that capitalization introduces information uncertainty that cannot be resolved by better disclosure. The findings imply that the institutional effect of disclosure has a strong influence on IFRS informativeness.

Keywords: Cost of Capital, Disclosure, Intangibles, Research and Development, Recognition

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dinh, Tami and Schultze, Wolfgang and List, Thomas and Zbiegly, Nadine, R&D Disclosures and Capitalization Under IAS 38 – Evidence on the Interplay Between National Institutional Regulations and IFRS Adoption (January 07, 2020). Forthcoming in: Journal of International Accounting Research , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3525742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3525742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
G M Entwhistle
Exploring the R&D disclosure environment
Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 323 - 341 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Ewelt , T Knauer
Zum Zielkonflikt der Unternehmenspublizität zu Forschung und Entwicklung -eine empirische Untersuchung der HDAX-Unternehmen (The Tradeoff of Communicating R&D -An Empirical Investigation of the German Stock Market)
Zeitschrift für Planung und Unternehmenssteuerung , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 58 Posted: 2010
A Florou , U Kosi
Does mandatory IFRS adoption facilitate debt financing?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1407 - 1456 Posted: 2012
Crossref
W Gebhardt , C M Lee , B Swaminathan
Toward an implied cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 135 - 176 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Tania Morris , Amos Sodjahin , Hamadou Boubacar
Ownership structure and women on boards of directors of Canadian listed companies
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 120 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Yiwei Fang , Wassim Dbouk , Iftekhar Hasan , Lingxiang Li
Banking Reform, Risk-Taking, and Accounting Quality: Evidence from Post-Soviet Transition States
BOFIT Discussion Paper No. 19/2014 · 29 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2016 · Last revised: 9 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 251
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zachary King
A New Perspective on R&D Accounting
73 Pages · Posted: 19 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 1 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 419
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tami Dinh , Wolfgang Schultze
Accounting for R&D on the Income Statement? Evidence on Non-Discretionary vs. Discretionary R&D Capitalization Under IFRS in Germany
55 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 140
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
266,613
5 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies