Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining Often-Heard Allegations: Is U.S. GAAP More Rules-based than IFRS?

55 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2020

Najlaa Kallousa

Koç University

Hussein A. Warsame

University of Calgary

Date Written: July 2018

Abstract

Following the massive wave of high-profile accounting scandals at the beginning of this millennium, there has been an apparent consensus within the U.S. policy-making circles that the existing U.S. accounting standards are the main reason for these failures. Many assert that U.S. GAAP is rules-based, with a main focus on meeting the form rather than the substance of accounting transactions. Consequently, the United States of America has witnessed increasing calls to abandon the current allegedly “rules-based” accounting system in favor of a principles-based system. As a result, the U.S. FASB adopted a best efforts convergence approach with the IASB (widely known as a provider of principles-based accounting standards) in September 2002. However, no prior research examines the extent to which rules-based characteristics exist in U.S. GAAP or IFRS. The objective of our study is to investigate if there is a significant difference in rules-based characteristics between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. To address this research question, we develop our own principles-versus-rules continuum instrument to quantitatively measure the extent to which rules-based characteristics exist in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. We find that inconsistent with the often-heard allegations, U.S. GAAP is less rules-based (more principles-based) than IFRS. For robustness, we confirm our results using the rules-based instrument developed by Mergenthaler (2009). Our empirical results will provide significant inputs to regulators and standard setters in their ongoing deliberations on how to improve the standard-setting process.

Keywords: Rules-based; Principles-based; US GAAP; IFRS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kallousa, Najlaa and Warsame, Hussein A., Examining Often-Heard Allegations: Is U.S. GAAP More Rules-based than IFRS? (July 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3533455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3533455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
C Agoglia , T Doupnik , G Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 23 , issue 8 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Ahmed , M Neel , E Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D Alexander , E Jermakowicz
A true and fair view of the principles/rules debate
Abacus , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 132 - 164 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,252
RANK
502,214
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies