Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did Mandatory IFRS Adoption Affect the Cost of Capital in Latin American Countries?

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 2020

38 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2020

André Aroldo Freitas De Moura

FGV - EAESP

Aljaohra Altuwaijri

Al-Imam Muhammad Ibn Saud Islamic University - College of Economics and Administrative Sciences

Jairaj Gupta

University of York

Date Written: February 6, 2020

Abstract

This study investigates whether mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) has affected the long-term cost of equity and debt in Latin America, where the enforcement of accounting standards and investor protection mechanisms are weak in comparison to developed nations. Analyzing a sample of firms from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, and Peru, we show that mandatory IFRS adoption led to reduction in the cost of equity even after controlling for firm-level reporting incentives. Test results also show that the cost of debt was reduced significantly after the IFRS adoption. Our results suggest that enhanced disclosure and comparability stemming from IFRS in comparison to previous domestic accounting standards helped to mitigate the information asymmetry problem, and resulted in positive economic consequences for Latin American firms.

Keywords: IFRS, cost of equity, cost of debt, investors, debt holders, Latin America

JEL Classification: G14, M40

Suggested Citation:

De Moura, André Aroldo Freitas and Altuwaijri, Aljaohra and Gupta, Jairaj, Did Mandatory IFRS Adoption Affect the Cost of Capital in Latin American Countries? (February 6, 2020). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3533493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
R Ball
Why we do International Accounting Research
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research
International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
C Barry , S Brown
Differential information and security market equilibrium
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 407 - 422 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,161
RANK
397,014
4 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies