Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS and More Recently IFRS for Smes Impact on Financial Statements Compared to Greek GAAP: The Case of SMEs in Beverage Industry

Multinational Finance Conference Booklet(IF:0,52), 22: 106-107, 2015

47 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2020

Maria Dimitriou

University of Macedonia

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

There have been major changes in financial reporting in recent years. The most obvious one is the continuing adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) worldwide, and more recently, of the recognition of the importance of Small and Medium-Sized Entities, IFRS for SMEs. SMEs in Greece today, regardless of their size and their sector of activity, required and encouraged to exchange financial information in a meaningful and trustworthy manner. The paper aims to investigate the main accounting and business-related issues for SMEs in the Greek Beverage Industry, which proves to be a matter of great importance and considerable research interest for the last three years. It considers currently effective standards and highlights future developments and challenges that could impact accounting in the industry in the years to come.

Keywords: IAS/IFRS, Greek GAAP, Greek General Chart of Account, Anglo-Saxon /French and German Model, New Greek Standards, SMEs, Beverage Industry, Extroversion, Attractive Investments, Value Creation, Market Efficiency

Suggested Citation:

Dimitriou, Maria, IFRS and More Recently IFRS for Smes Impact on Financial Statements Compared to Greek GAAP: The Case of SMEs in Beverage Industry (2015). Multinational Finance Conference Booklet(IF:0,52), 22: 106-107, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Α Βαζακίδης , Α Σταυρόπουλος , Α Χατζης
Λογιστικό Σχέδιο-Μηχανογράφηση Λογιστηρίου. Θεσσαλονίκη Posted: 2010
Χ Βλάχος , Λ Λουκάς
Διεθνή Λογιστικά Πρότυπα Posted: 2009
Θ Γ Γρηγοράκου
Ανάλυση-Ερμηνεία του Ελληνικού Γενικού Λογιστικού Σχεδίου (Γενική και Αναλυτική Λογιστική), 13η έκδοση. Αθήνα: Σάκκουλας Posted: 2008
Θ Καραγιώργος , Α Πετρίδης
Εφαρμογή των διεθνών λογιστικών προτύπων (Δ.Λ.Π.) σε συνδυασμό με το γενικό λογιστικό σχέδιο
Θεωρία και πράξη. Θεσσαλονίκη: Εκδόσεις Γερμανός Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
870
RANK
568,179
8 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies