Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of IFRS on Financial Statements in Greece: Application in a Multinational Company

Hellenic Finance and Accounting Conference Booklet, 13: 16, 2014

26 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2020

Maria Dimitriou

University of Macedonia

Antonis Stavropoulos

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

In this paper, we focused on the process of international harmonization with particular reference to the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in listed and unlisted firms in Greece. To do this, the paper is based on the data obtained from the literature survey and archival sources in the context of IFRS’s adoption worldwide, mainly from the organization itself. We introduce the background of IFRS, the benefits, its goals, and then we explore the fundamental differences between IFRS and Greek GAAP (find financial statements prepared according to Greek GAAP, converted to IFRS, compare them, find cash flows). Additionally, we go into a few of the major changes that occur within the various financial statements when converting to IFRS from Greek GAAP. As the statement of cash flows is an additional regulation for Greek GAAP, we give an example of this statement and its usefulness in a Greek multinational company. Concerning that, it is apparent that IAS 7/IFRS improves the relevance, and thereby, the quality, or at least some reported numbers. Greece has adopted IFRS in order to participate in the benefits it offers. In the end, the paper highlights the most important aspects of the paper.

Suggested Citation:

Dimitriou, Maria and Stavropoulos, Antonis, Impact of IFRS on Financial Statements in Greece: Application in a Multinational Company (2014). Hellenic Finance and Accounting Conference Booklet, 13: 16, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535820
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Χρηματοοικονομική Λογιστική. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία. Αληφάντης, Γ. Στ Posted: 2015
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Λογιστικές Εργασίες Τέλους Χρήσεως
Διεθνή Λογιστικά Πρότυπα, 4η Έκδοση. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Παπαζήση Globaltraining Posted: 2007
Χ Νεγκάκης
Επιχειρήσεις Λογιστική-Θεωρία και Πρακτική, 2η Έκδοση Posted: 2012
Α Σταυρόπουλος , Α Βαζακίδης , Σ Τσόπογλου
Χρηματοοικονομική Λογιστική, Λογιστικό Σχέδιο. Θεσσαλονίκη: Ελλάδα Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
931
RANK
521,427
8 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies