Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Case Study of Investment Opportunities and Decision Making on Food and Drink Firms Listed on ASE Under IFRS

Multinational Finance Conference Booklet(IF:0,57), 23: 147-148, 2016

41 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2020

Maria Dimitriou

University of Macedonia

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Firms have been enabled to prepare IFRS financial statements that allow them to adopt a global financial reporting language as well as to be evaluated in a global marketplace. The paper investigates a sector that has a major role in the European economy as well as in Greece. This paper aims at outlining a picture of events and trends, reminding the idea of funds and indexes through ASE, and it also puts things in perspective. It is believed that investment in the Greek Food and Drink Sector, especially in SMEs, is an opportunity even in the recession period. The existing trend in the international investment community indicates positive prospects for the sector. It discusses the findings and observations of the main accounting and business-related issues in the food and drink sector and their effect on investment decisions, which prove to be a matter of great importance and considerable research interest. This paper explores the reasons why internal and external investors should invest in Food and Drink Sector. It provides an updated description of the process of IFRS adoption in Greece, historical background (providing by the literature review), pointing out the comparison with Greek GAAP, and considering currently New Greek Accounting Standards. More, it examines a firm’s financial statements under IFRS, giving information about its performance, position, and cash flow. It can also be useful for accountants and management, but also investors, financial analysts or business valuers. Besides, it provides sufficient background information to make an investment recommendation for the firm’s stock in the next paper.

Suggested Citation:

Dimitriou, Maria, Case Study of Investment Opportunities and Decision Making on Food and Drink Firms Listed on ASE Under IFRS (2016). Multinational Finance Conference Booklet(IF:0,57), 23: 147-148, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Χρηματοοικονομική Λογιστική. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Ενοποιημένες Οικονομικές Καταστάσεις. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Λογιστικές Εργασίες Τέλους Χρήσεως. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Α Βαζακίδης , Α Σταυρόπουλος , Α Και Χατζης
Λογιστικό Σχέδιο-Μηχανογράφηση Λογιστηρίου. Θεσσαλονίκη Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,097
RANK
454,090
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies