Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing a Firm's Performance Under IFRS: The Case of Coca-Cola Hellenic

Accounting and Finance Conference Proceedings 5:29, 2014

22 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2020

Maria Dimitriou

University of Macedonia

Antonis Stavropoulos

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The conversion of accounting standards from Greek Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) raises the issue of the firm’s reported performance. As far as the reported performance is concerned, the statement of cash flows is an additional regulation for Greek GAAP in accordance with IFRS. Therefore, in this paper, we put special emphasis on standards IFRS 7, the statement of cash flows, and the usefulness of this standard in assessing a firm’s reported performance. In this paper, we present the process of assessing a firm’s statement of cash flows or to adjust its ability to generate and grow earnings and cash flow. Prior to undertaking any analysis appropriate to the above purpose, we introduce the concepts of the adoption of IFRS in Greece, and then we explore the context of IFRS 7 as the aim, use, and construction of the cash flow statement (classification and presentation) but also the accounting handling of it. It may additionally be necessary to use tools and techniques which facilitate the assessment of the firm’s financial and operational data. Concerning that, we adjust the phase of a firm’s life cycle but also the amounts associated with the statement of cash flows by creating common size analysis from it and calculating the free cash flow as well as the ratios suggested by IFRS7. However, in order to achieve the paper’s purpose, we present the case of Coca Cola Hellenic Bottling Company, including real reported corporate data, for educational purposes only. For well-supported conclusions, the application of a firm’s assessment is enhanced by using five years of data. At every stage of assessment, the paper reports the results of the analysis and highlights the most important aspects of the analysis. Finally, in summary, adjusting a firm’s statement of cash flows gives a complete picture of the firm’s financial condition. It shows the quality of earnings, liquidity, and flexibility. It is apparent that IFRS 7 improves the relevance, and thereby, the quality, or at least some reported numbers.

Keywords: IFRS, Greek GAAP, Cash Flows statement, Life Cycle, Common-size, FCFF, FCFE, ratios

Suggested Citation:

Dimitriou, Maria and Stavropoulos, Antonis, Assessing a Firm's Performance Under IFRS: The Case of Coca-Cola Hellenic (2014). Accounting and Finance Conference Proceedings 5:29, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Χ Βλάχος , Λ Λουκάς
Διεθνή Λογιστικά Πρότυπα
Διεθνή Λογιστικά Πρότυπα, 4η Έκδοση. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Παπαζήση Globaltraining Posted: 2007
S Baralexis
Creative accounting in small advancing countries; The Greek case
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 19 , issue 3 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Coca-Cola Hellenic
Posted: 2013
Crossref
Deloitte's IAS Plus website. IFRS in your Pocket Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,739
RANK
175,588
11 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies