Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Treatment of Firms’ Valuation Based on IFRS and Greek GAAP for Appropriate Investment Decision Making Using ICT

Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF:0,58), 25: 150-151, 2018

40 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2020

Maria Dimitriou

University of Macedonia

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

This detailed research proposal is an introduction to firm valuation and financial reporting under IAS/IFRS and Greek GAAP using ICT (Information and Communications Technology) for appropriate stock recommendation: Example of investment research /valuation report in the Food & Beverages Industry: Alcohol-free Beverage Sector. These recommendations include which stocks to buy, which stocks to sell, and which stocks to hold. The high complexity and diversity of the analysts’ valuation process today have far-reaching implications for investment decision-making and valuation practice. The increasing uncertainty during the financial crisis and the volume of risk that drive to analysts’ target price, earnings forecasts and stock recommendation often draws rigorous scientific search with the hope of finding winning formulas for firm or business units valuation in regions with different level of growth, margin and risk, and the way they contribute to value firm’s stock separately and totally, to find the secret to avoiding problems such as inaccurate forecasts or valuation errors.

Keywords: Institutional and Regulatory Framework (GAAP, IFRS/IAS), Firm/Stock Valuation, Investments /investment Decisions, Food-Beverage Sector, Exchanges/financial analysts, Informatics /Information /Applications

Suggested Citation:

Dimitriou, Maria, The Accounting Treatment of Firms’ Valuation Based on IFRS and Greek GAAP for Appropriate Investment Decision Making Using ICT (2018). Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF:0,58), 25: 150-151, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
203 References
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Χρηματοοικονομική Λογιστική, τ. Α', τ. Β'. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Ενοποιημένες Οικονομικές Καταστάσεις. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Λογιστικές Εργασίες Τέλους Χρήσεως. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Α Βαζακίδης , Α Σταυρόπουλος , Α Χατζής , Θεσσαλονίκη , Χ Βλάχος , Λ ; Θ Λουκάς , Γ
Λογιστικό Σχέδιο-Μηχανογράφηση Λογιστηρίου
Ανάλυση-Ερμηνεία του Ελληνικού Γενικού Λογιστικού Σχεδίου (Γενική και Αναλυτική Λογιστική), 13η έκδοση. Αθήνα: Σάκκουλας Posted: 2008
Load more
3 Citations
Maria Dimitriou
The Accounting Treatment of Firms’ Valuation Based on IFRS and Greek GAAP for Appropriate Investment Decision Making Using ICT
Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF:0,58), 25: 150-151, 2018 · 40 Pages · Posted: 17 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 82
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maria Dimitriou
Η λογιστική αντιμετώπιση της αποτίμησης των επιχειρήσεων βάσει των ελληνικών Γενικά Παραδεκτών Λογιστικών Αρχών (ΓΠΛΑ) και των Διεθνών Προτύπων Χρηματοοικονομικής Πληροφόρησης (ΔΠΧΠ) (The Accounting Treatment of Corporate Valuation Based on Greek Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS))
Hellenic Finance and Accounting Conference Booklet, 17: 25 (2018) · 39 Pages · Posted: 13 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maria Dimitriou
What Is the Importance of Financial Reporting from Local Gaap to Ifrs for Companies, and How Can the Accounting Treatment Influence This Factor within Firms’ Valuation Concept?
Multinational Finance Conference Booklet, 27: 25 · 35 Pages · Posted: 30 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 577
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
903
RANK
703,106
3 Citations
203 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies