Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the IASB’s Dissenting Opinions

19 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2020

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Julie Harrison

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: August 1, 2015

Abstract

In this paper we report the results of a content analysis of dissenting opinions found in International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) standards. During 2001 to 2009 the IASB issued 26 financial accounting standards or amendments to standards. Twenty-five of these standards contained dissenting opinions. We identify and classify the arguments in the dissenting opinions using the methodology of Bradbury and Harrison (2015). The results show that the IASB standards are characterised by a higher rate of dissent reflecting the greater diversity of the IASB board. Dissenting arguments have implications for due process that is being followed and on the use of qualitative characteristics.

Keywords: IASB, due process, dissenting opinions, qualitative characteristics

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bradbury, Michael E. and Harrison, Julie A, An Analysis of the IASB’s Dissenting Opinions (August 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3535194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
A C Yen , E Hirst , &amp; P E Hopkins
A content analysis of the comprehensive income exposure draft comment letters
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 19 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S A Zeff
Political" lobbying on proposed standards: A challenge to the IASB
Accounting Horizons , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 54 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S A Zeff
Political lobbying on accounting standards -US, UK and international experience
Comparative International Accounting , p. 247 - 278 Posted: 2010
S A Zeff
The Evolution of the IASC into the IASB, and the Challenges it Faces
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 3 , p. 807 - 837 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
869
RANK
778,997
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies