Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants of China's International Portfolio Equity Allocations

IZA Discussion Paper No. 13001

88 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2020 Last revised: 6 May 2025

Isha Agarwal

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Grace Weishi Gu

University of California, Santa Cruz - Department of Economics

Eswar S. Prasad

Cornell University - Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management; Cornell University - Department of Economics; Brookings Institution; NBER; IZA Institute of Labor Economics; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Abstract

We analyze shifts in the structure of China's capital outflows over the past decade. The composition of gross outflows has shifted from accumulation of foreign exchange reserves by the central bank to nonofficial outflows. Unlocking the enormous pool of domestic savings could have a significant impact on global financial markets as China continues to open up its capital account and as domestic investors look abroad for returns and diversification.We analyze in detail the allocation patterns of Chinese institutional investors (IIs), which constitute the main channel for foreign portfolio investment outflows. We find that, relative to benchmarks based on market capitalization, Chinese IIs underweight developed countries and high-tech sectors in their international portfolio allocations but overinvest in high-tech stocks in developed countries. To further examine Chinese IIs' joint decisions on destination country-sector pairs, we construct continuous measures of revealed relative comparative advantage and disadvantage in a sector for a country based on trade patterns.We find that, in their foreign portfolio allocations, Chinese IIs overweight sectors in which China has a comparative disadvantage. Moreover, Chinese IIs concentrate such investments in countries that have higher relative comparative advantage in those sectors. Diversification and information advantages related to foreign imports to China seem to influence patterns of foreign portfolio allocations, while yield-seeking and learning motives do not.

Keywords: institutional investors, portfolio flows, international investment position, capital account liberalization, revealed comparative (dis)advantage

JEL Classification: F2, F3, F4

Suggested Citation:

Agarwal, Isha and Steadmon, Weishi and Prasad, Eswar S., The Determinants of China's International Portfolio Equity Allocations. IZA Discussion Paper No. 13001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3546398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Sandro C Andrade , Vidhi Chhaochharia
Information Immobility and Foreign Portfolio Investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 2429 - 2463 Posted: 2010
Bela Balassa
Trade Liberalisation and 'Revealed' Comparative Advantage
The Manchester School , volume 33 , p. 99 - 123 Posted: 1965
Tamim Bayoumi , Franziska Ohnsorge
Do Inflows or Outflows Dominate? Global Implications of Capital Account Liberalization in China Posted: 2013
Carlos Casanova , Alicia Garcia-Herrero , Le Xia
Chinese Outbound Foreign Direct Investment: How Much Goes Where after Round-tripping and Offshoring? Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
858
RANK
614,410
7 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IZA Institute of Labor Economics Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies