Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Commitment to Income-Decreasing Accounting Choices as a Credible Signal to Reduce Information Asymmetry: The Case of Asset Revaluations

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-59

39 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2020 Last revised: 13 Apr 2020

Fabio Moraes da Costa

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business; FUCAPE Business School

Carol Liu

Arizona State University (ASU), W.P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy, Students

Regina Rosa

University of New Orleans - College of Business Administration

Samuel L. Tiras

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 29, 2020

Abstract

Bagnoli and Watts (2005) propose that a manager could reduce information asymmetry by choosing an income-decreasing accounting choice that signals the firm’s relatively good future prospects. A limitation in testing this theory is that most income-decreasing accounting choices over time reverse such that aggregated earnings would be the same, regardless of the choice. One income-decreasing accounting choice that never reverses is the choice of upward asset revaluation, where the resulting gains are recognized through OCI and reduce future earnings by increasing future depreciation expense. In the UK, prior to FRS15, firms had the option to upwardly revalue on a one-time basis. FRS15, and subsequently IFRS, however, require those firms that upwardly revalue precommit to revalue on a consistent basis. This precommitment sacrifices future reporting discretion, which Bagnoli and Watts (2005) suggest serves as a costly signal of a firm’s relatively good future prospects that reduces information asymmetry. The choice not to upwardly revalue, therefore, serves as a signal of a firm’s relatively poor future prospects and also reduces information asymmetry, but this choice does not require precommitment such that the reduction in information asymmetry would be less than the choice to precommit to upward revaluations. Using a propensity-score matched-pair design on a sample of UK firms to test our predictions during the period requiring precommitment, we find lower forecast dispersion, lower return volatility, and a lower cost of capital for firms that precommit to upward asset revaluations, relative to those firms that choose not to upwardly revalue their operating assets.

Keywords: Upward Asset Revaluations; Income-Decreasing Accounting Choice, Forecast Dispersion, Return Volatility, Cost of Capital, Precommitment

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

da Costa, Fabio Moraes and Liu, Carol and Rosa, Regina and Tiras, Samuel L., The Commitment to Income-Decreasing Accounting Choices as a Credible Signal to Reduce Information Asymmetry: The Case of Asset Revaluations (February 29, 2020). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-59, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3548581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3548581
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance, evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue 1-3 , p. 149 - 78 Posted: 1999
Crossref
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Firms' voluntary recognition of stock-based compensation expense
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 123 - 50 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 71 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Conservative accounting choices
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 786 - 801 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,209
RANK
478,514
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies