Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Desideratum for HR Excellence and Skills for New International Transfer Pricing Regime

In “Business Excellence and Leadership in VUCA World”, Ed. Nilam Panchal, pp.290-298, ISBN: 978-93-89652-98-7, Himalaya Publishing House (for B. K. School of Management, Gujarat University, Ahmedabad), Mumbai, India.

11 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2020

Pawan K. Chugan

Nirma University - Institute of Management; AIIM - Ahmedabad; SPM - PDPU

Nilam Panchal

Gujarat University

Date Written: January 30, 2020

Abstract

In consonance with globalization, the International Transfer Pricing (ITP) rules have also been introduced in the countries, where they did not exist, or reformed as per the OECD guidelines in a number of countries where they already existed. In many countries the process of revamping these rules is still in process and existing rules are being reviewed and modified continuously for their effectiveness. In India, these rules were first introduced in 2001, and since then have been continuously being upgraded with the adoption of new provisions such as advance pricing agreements (APAs), Safe Harbour Rules (SHRs), Roll Back Provision in APA system, Tuning the existing rules in line with the BEPS, etc. and today country offers one of the best ITP regulations amongst the developed world. Nevertheless, for the effective implementation of the New International Transfer Regime, one of the major concern has been a required manpower with skills to deal with the related issues. To address this concern, and create awareness amongst the young graduates in this field, this paper first attempts to discuss some of the basic concepts and then spells out the desideratum (need) of human resources in this crucial area of international taxation and business.

Note: This paper was presented in the 5th International Youth Symposium, organised by the B. K. School of Management, Gujarat University, Ahmedabad during Jan. 30-31, 2020 and published in the reading book of the conference. It has been uploaded with permission from the editor of the book and may be used/cited by the researchers. Copyright of same however, rests with the editors and publishers and any commercial use of its contents may need permission for the same.

Keywords: International Transfer Pricing, Advance Pricing Agreement (APA), Safe Harbour Rules (SHR), Roll Back, BEPS, Arm’s Length Pricing (ALP)

JEL Classification: E24, E62, F2, F4, F21, F23, H2, H26, H32, H32, H87, J44, L1, L2

Suggested Citation:

Chugan, Pawan Kumar and Panchal, Nilam, Desideratum for HR Excellence and Skills for New International Transfer Pricing Regime (January 30, 2020). In “Business Excellence and Leadership in VUCA World”, Ed. Nilam Panchal, pp.290-298, ISBN: 978-93-89652-98-7, Himalaya Publishing House (for B. K. School of Management, Gujarat University, Ahmedabad), Mumbai, India., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3554547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Pawan K Chugan
International Transfer Pricing, Taxation and Need for Advance Pricing Arrangement
PRAVARTAK -The Journal of Insurance and Management , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 134 - 140 Posted: 2007-01
Pawan K Chugan
Transfer Pricing and MNCs: Safe Harbour Rules (SHR) and Advance Pricing Arrangement (APA) to Facilitate FDI and Reduce Litigation in India , p. 355 - 367 Posted: 2014-01
Pawan K Chugan , Upinder Dhar
The Role of Human Resources in New Transfer Pricing Regime
Association of Indian Management Schools , volume 2 , p. 2395 - 6852 Posted: 2016
Chugan Pawan , K
Managing International Business Disputes in New Transfer Pricing Regime: The Effectiveness Rests with Skilled Human Resources
Fourteenth AIMS International Conference on Management , p. 150 - 157 Posted: 2016-12-26
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
923
RANK
653,956
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies