Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Defined Benefit Pension Schemes in IAS 19 Employee Benefits – True and Fair?

Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, Vol. 27, pp. 31-42, 2020

16 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2020

Anne M. Garvey

Universidad de Alcala de Henares

Bridget McNally

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Thomas O’Connor

National University of Ireland, Maynooth (NUI Maynooth) - Department of Economics, Finance and Accounting

Date Written: March 17, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This paper argues that the accounting standards’ requirement for the valuation of pension scheme liabilities, potentially produces an artificial result which is at odds with the “faithful representation” and “relevance” objectives of these standards.

Design/methodology/approach: The approach is a theoretical analysis of the relevant reporting standards with the use of a practical example to demonstrate the impact where trustees adopt a hedged approach to portfolio investment.

Findings: Where a pension fund engages in asset liability matching and invests in “risk – free” assets, the term, quantity and duration/maturity of which, is intended to match some or all of its scheme liabilities, the required accounting treatment potentially results in the sponsoring company’s financial statements reporting fluctuating surpluses or deficits each year which are potentially ill-informed and misleading.

Originality/value: Pension scheme surpluses or deficits reported in the financial statements of listed companies are potentially very significant numbers, however the dangers posed by theoretical nature of the calculation has largely gone unreported.

Keywords: faithful representation, risk free assets, hedging, relevance

JEL Classification: E41

Suggested Citation:

Garvey, Anne M. and McNally, Bridget and O'Connor, Thomas, Valuation of Defined Benefit Pension Schemes in IAS 19 Employee Benefits – True and Fair? (March 17, 2020). Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance, Vol. 27, pp. 31-42, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Attain Consulting
Accounting for pensions In Ireland Posted: 2009
J R Brown , G G Pennacchi
Discounting pension liabilities: funding versus value Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Coronado , O Mitchell , S Sharpe , S Blake Nesbritt
Footnotes aren't enough: The impact of pension accounting on stock values
Journal of Pension Economics and Finance , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 257 - 276 Posted: 2008
Crossref
FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland
Financial Reporting Council Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,834
RANK
270,901
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Social Security, Pensions & Retirement Income eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies