Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Dominant Firms’ Shocks on Earnings Management

Posted: 7 Apr 2020

Dante Viana Jr.

Faculty of Economics, University of Algarve, Portugal

Date Written: March 17, 2020

Abstract

This study aims to investigate whether dominant firms’ idiosyncratic shocks affect earnings management of non-dominant firms. Following economic literature, shocks to dominant firms are measured by abnormal levels of labor productivity growth, considering expected levels at the industry-level. Based on a set of firms from 13 European countries, I predict and find that the level of dominant firms’ shocks is negatively associated to earnings management practices of non-dominant firms. Aligned with granular hypothesis suggested by Gabaix (2011) seminal work, these findings suggest that positive shocks to dominant firms are related to more expansion of the economy, less uncertainty and, hence, lower earnings management of other firms.

Keywords: dominant firms’ shocks, earnings management, international accounting

JEL Classification: E32, D20, M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Viana Jr., Dante, The Effect of Dominant Firms’ Shocks on Earnings Management (March 17, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555790
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies