Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Position and Performance in IFRS 17

41 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2020 Last revised: 11 May 2020

Mathias Lindholm

Stockholm University

Filip Lindskog

Stockholm University

Lina Palmborg

Stockholm University

Date Written: April 3, 2020

Abstract

The general principles for determining the financial performance of a company is that revenue is earned as goods are delivered or services provided, and that expenses in the period are made up of the costs associated with this earned revenue. To follow these principles in the insurance industry is a complex task.

The premium payments are typically made upfront, and can provide coverage for several years, or be paid many years before the coverage period starts. The associated costs are often not fully know until many years later. Hence, complexity arises both in determining how a premium paid should be earned over time, and in valuing the costs associated with this earned premium. IFRS 17 attempts to align the insurance industry with these general accounting principles.

We bring this new accounting standard into the realm of actuarial science, through a mathematical interpretation of the regulatory texts, and by defining the algorithm for profit or loss in accordance with the new standard. Furthermore, we suggest a computationally efficient risk-based method of valuing a portfolio of insurance contracts and an allocation of this value to sub-portfolios. Finally, we demonstrate the practicability of these methods and the algorithm for profit or loss in a large-scale numerical example.

Keywords: IFRS 17, Financial Performance, Valuation, Allocation

JEL Classification: G22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lindholm, Mathias and Lindskog, Filip and Palmborg, Lina, Financial Position and Performance in IFRS 17 (April 3, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3567745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3567745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
K Barigou , J Dhaene
Fair valuation of insurance liabilities via mean-variance hedging in a multi-period setting
Scandinavian Actuarial Journal , issue 2 , p. 163 - 187 Posted: 2019
Crossref
N Brouhns , M Denuit , J K Vermunt
A Poisson log-bilinear regression approach to the construction of projected lifetables
Insurance: Mathematics and Economics , volume 31 , p. 373 - 393 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35 of 10 Posted: 2014-10
DIRECTIVE 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament Posted: 2009-11
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
614
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,564
RANK
100,411
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies