Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Fair Value on the Matching of Revenues and Expenses: The Case of Asset Revaluations

International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 1 May 2020 Last revised: 8 Jun 2020

Fabio Moraes da Costa

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business; FUCAPE Business School

Carol Liu

Arizona State University (ASU), W.P. Carey School of Business, School of Accountancy, Students

Regina Rosa

University of New Orleans - College of Business Administration

Samuel L. Tiras

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: June 5, 2020

Abstract

Researchers and practitioners have expressed concern that matching has declined over time, as evidenced by a decreasing association between revenues and expenses. They attribute this decline to the shift in financial reporting from a revenue-expense view that emphasizes matching, to an asset-liability view that emphasizes the measurement of economic resources that incorporates more fair values. When revenues rise with inflation but the expenses remain tied to historical costs, the two streams tend to diverge. We hypothesize that upwardly revaluing the long-lived fixed operating assets resets the expense stream; thus, changes in revenues will be more closely associated with changes in expenses for firms that revalue than firms that do not upwardly revalue. Based on a sample of United Kingdom firms, we find evidence supporting our expectations, particularly in those higher inflationary industries.

Keywords: asset revaluations, matching, fair value accounting, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

da Costa, Fabio Moraes and Liu, Carol and Rosa, Regina and Tiras, Samuel L., The Effects of Fair Value on the Matching of Revenues and Expenses: The Case of Asset Revaluations (June 5, 2020). International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3570210
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 26 , issue 1-3 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Statement No. 4 Basic Concepts and Accounting Principles Underlying Financial Statements of Business Enterprises Posted: 1970
R T Ball , P Easton
Dissecting earnings recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 1099 - 1132 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Barlev , D Fried , J R Haddad , J Livnat
Reevaluation of revaluations: A crosscountry examination of the motives and effects on future performance
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue 7-8 , p. 1025 - 1050 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,138
RANK
352,454
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies