Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing Comparables: Preferring a Close Neighbor Over a Far-Away Peer?

forthcoming in Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

52 Pages Posted: 7 May 2020 Last revised: 5 Jan 2022

Bert Steens

VU University

Thibaut Roques

Independent

Sébastien Gonnet

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Matthias Petutschnig

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: September 3, 2021

Abstract

In a globalized economy, transfer pricing estimations are key in valuing international transactions between entities of multinational corporations (MNCs), and the use of uncontrolled peer group comparison methods are widespread. In the absence of uniform guidelines on the optimal identification for comparable companies, however, it remains a concern that poor selection choices may lead to biased estimates. This may systematically bias cross-jurisdictional revenue flows. The current approach employed by tax practitioners and implicitly endorsed by several tax administrations worldwide commonly relies on comparables from neighboring countries. We employ a global sample of over 11,000 manufacturing firms located across 84 countries over the period 2012-2016. We find evidence that the risk level of the country of incorporation of the companies is highly correlated with their profitability and that geographical closeness is less relevant for explaining profitability when controlling for country risk. Our findings suggest that the search for foreign comparables is better guided by country risk rather than geographic proximity and that insufficiently controlling for country-level sovereign risk biases high-risk countries’ corporate tax revenues downwards. We conclude that the accuracy of comparables is likely to benefit from expanding the scope of observations to a global level, while controlling for country risk.

Keywords: Transfer pricing; Corporate taxation; Accounting Comparables; Country risk; Geographical proximity

JEL Classification: F23; F36; H20; M4

Suggested Citation:

Steens, H. B. A. and Roques, Thibaut and Gonnet, Sébastien and Beuselinck, Christof and Petutschnig, Matthias, Transfer Pricing Comparables: Preferring a Close Neighbor Over a Far-Away Peer? (September 3, 2021). forthcoming in Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3573905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3573905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
S Beer , J Loeprick
Profit shifting: drivers of transfer (mis) pricing and the potential of countermeasures
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 22 , p. 426 - 451 Posted: 2015
S Beer , J Loeprick
Too high a price? Tax treaties with investment hubs in Sub-Saharan Africa
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 28 , p. 113 - 153 Posted: 2021
G Bekaert , C H Harvey
Foreign speculators and emerging equity markets
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 565 - 613 Posted: 2000
G Bekaert , C H Harvey , C T Lundblad , S Siegel
Political risk and international valuation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 37 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,846
RANK
197,664
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies