Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differences of Financial Statement Presentation of FDI Firms under Vietnamese Accounting and International Accounting

American Based Research Journal, Vol. 6 Issue 12, December 2017

11 Pages Posted: 9 May 2020

Thuy-Dzung Do

Vuong & Associates (Hanoi)

Lan Thi Ngoc Nguyen

Congdoan University

Date Written: December 01, 2017

Abstract

this study is conducted to investigate the differences of financial statement presentation of FDI firms under Vietnamese Accounting and International Accounting (IAS/IFRS). Data were collected by conducting survey of FDI firms, independent audit firms from 2015 to 2017. Descriptive analysis and T-test have been employed for measuring the differences among items presentation of financial statements under Vietnamese accounting and international accounting. The result shows that there is a significant difference of presentation in the financial statements of FDI firms under Vietnamese accounting and international accounting. Based on the results, some suggestions have been given for reducing the gap between Vietnamese accounting and international accounting, including financial statements.

Keywords: Vietnamese Accounting, International Accounting, Financial statements

Suggested Citation:

Do, Thuy-Dzung and Nguyen, Lan Thi Ngoc, Differences of Financial Statement Presentation of FDI Firms under Vietnamese Accounting and International Accounting (December 01, 2017). American Based Research Journal, Vol. 6 Issue 12, December 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
J W Creswell
Research design: Qualitative, Quantitative and Mixed Methods Approaches. Thousand Oaks, Sage publications. ii. Deloitte Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
736
RANK
915,095
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies