Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Peers, Accounting Comparability, and Value Relevance of Private Firms’ Financial Reporting

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 8 May 2020 Last revised: 25 Jan 2022

Thomas Bourveau

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Jason V. Chen

University of Illinois at Chicago

Ferdinand Elfers

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Jochen Pierk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: January 25, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether higher accounting comparability between public and private firms leads to higher value relevance of private firms’ reported financial information. To help develop our hypotheses, we conduct a series of interviews with M&A valuation experts. The experts indicate that having comparable accounting between public and private firms allows them to apply public firms’ valuation multiples directly to private firms, which facilitates the use of private firms’ financial reporting in their valuations. Using a large sample of private target firm M&As in the European Union around the mandatory adoption of IFRS by public firms, we find that private firms’ reported financial information has higher value relevance when it has higher accounting comparability to that of public firms. Furthermore, we find that the impact of accounting comparability is stronger when public peer firm information is more precise. In total, our findings are consistent with higher accounting comparability facilitating a spillover of valuation information from public to private markets, which leads to greater value relevance of private firms’ reported financial information.

Keywords: value relevance, private firms, spillovers, comparability

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Bourveau, Thomas and Chen, Jason V. and Elfers, Ferdinand and Pierk, Jochen, Public Peers, Accounting Comparability, and Value Relevance of Private Firms’ Financial Reporting (January 25, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3576389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
H Aguinis , A M Solarino
Transparency and replicability in qualitative research: The case of interviews with elite informants
Strategic Management Journal , volume 40 , issue 8 , p. 1291 - 1315 Posted: 2019
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
535
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,829
RANK
119,460
11 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies