Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Transition to the Application of IFRS 15: Recognition of Revenue from Contracts with Customers A Case Study (Jordan Telecommunication's Company Orange)

American Based Research Journal, Vol. 7 Issue 02, February 2018

13 Pages Posted: 11 May 2020

Dr Khaled Jamal Jaarat

Middle East University

Baraah Shaheen Al Khraisat

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

The study aims to examine the effect of transition to the application of IFRS 15: recognition of revenues from contracts with customers in Jordanian telecommunications’ companies, as a case study it was conducted in Jordan Telecommunications Company (Orange) for the period between 2010-2017, The researchers re-calculated the revenue of contracts with customers retroactively, and separate the goods’ revenues from services’ revenues, also calculate the assets from contracts at the end of each interim period for the quarterly progress reports for all periods of study. A number of statistical methods were used; the most important one is descriptive statistics, the natural distribution of data and testing the study hypotheses using the multiple regression equations to identify the effect of independent variables on dependent variables. The most important result of the study showed that there is a statistically significant impact at the level of (α ≤ 0.05) for the application of IFRS 15 as measured by the services' revenue , goods' revenue, and contract assets on total revenues and owner equity, The study recommended urging the telecommunications companies working in Jordan especially Orange to apply IFRS 15 for its impact to achieve transparency in disclosure, and to increase the reliability of accounting measurement of financial reporting.

Keywords: IFRS 15: Revenue From Contracts With Customers, Contract Assets, Services’ Revenue, Goods’ Revenue, Orange, Telecommunications Companies

Suggested Citation:

Jaarat, Dr Khaled Jamal and Khraisat, Baraah Shaheen Al, The Impact of Transition to the Application of IFRS 15: Recognition of Revenue from Contracts with Customers A Case Study (Jordan Telecommunication's Company Orange) (2018). American Based Research Journal, Vol. 7 Issue 02, February 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3577637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
533
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,858
RANK
120,023
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies