Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Indian Accounting Curriculum

Alochana Chakra Journal, Volume IX, Issue IV, April/2020

17 Pages Posted: 12 May 2020

Deepak Adhana

Maharshi Dayanand University - Institute of Management Studies & Research

Date Written: April 15, 2020

Abstract

Last 30-40 years of globalisation have witnessed increasing interdependence among the world nations. Although nations are physically separated, they seem integrated through cross border flows of goods, services, people, capital, information and culture. Foreign Direct Investments, Foreign Institutional Investors, Merger and Acquisition, Franchising and Business Outsourcing are some example of international transaction in global business. Integration of the capital market has necessitated the unification of financial reporting methods and hence, the Accounting. Accounting is a language of any business. It helps to identify measure and communicate accounting information to permit informed judgement and decisions by the users of the information. With the intention of alliance in accounting methods, International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS have developed.

IFRS are accounting standards issued by the IFRS Foundation and Landon-based International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to provide a common global language for business affairs so that company accounts are understandable and comparable across international boundaries. IFRS requires businesses to report their financial results and financial position using the same rules; this means that, barring any fraudulent manipulation, there is considerable uniformity in the financial reporting of all businesses using IFRS, which makes it easier to compare and contrast their financial results. IFRS are widely used around the world by more than 140 countries but have not replaced the separate accounting standards in the United States where US GAAP is applied.

The present paper discusses the worldwide transition from national accounting standards to international accounting standards. The paper further exhibits progression of IFRS in an Indian context in the form of Ind AS? It also studies the probable benefits and challenges in process of convergence. Finally, the paper concludes with a foreseeable future perspective.

Keywords: GAAP, ICAI, IFRS, IND AS

Suggested Citation:

Adhana, Deepak, Convergence of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Indian Accounting Curriculum (April 15, 2020). Alochana Chakra Journal, Volume IX, Issue IV, April/2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3578821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Philip Brown
International Financial Reporting Standards: what are the benefits? Accounting and Business Research , volume 41 , p. 269 - 285 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Keryn Chalmers , Greg Clinch
Changes in value relevance of accounting information upon IFRS adoption: Evidence from Australia
Australian Journal of Management , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 173 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Tohmatsu Deloitte Touche
Use of IFRS by jurisdiction Posted: 2012
Rita W Y Yip , Danqing Young
Does Mandatory IFRS Adoption Improve Information Comparability
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 5 , p. 1767 - 1789 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,788
RANK
180,250
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies