Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lost in Translation? Analysts’ Forecasts of Cross-Listed Firms

Journal of International Accounting Research 19, pp. 41-64, 2020

44 Pages Posted: 18 May 2020 Last revised: 2 Sep 2022

Hyunkwon Cho

Sungkyunkwan University

Volkan Muslu

C.T. Bauer College of Business University of Houston

Minjae Koo

Korea University Business School

Date Written: April 21, 2020

Abstract

The level of difficulty for U.S. analysts in the native language of a cross-listed firm increases their forecast errors. The association is decreased by analyst experience and analyst fluency in the language of the cross-listed firms. The association is also decreased for countries using IFRS and those with higher financial reporting quality. Investors react more strongly to forecasts for firms that present greater language difficulty to analysts. Overall, our findings suggest that the language difficulty of cross-listed firms is associated with poor information environment and capital-market-related costs.

Keywords: Analyst forecasts, forecast accuracy, language difficulty

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G17

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Hyunkwon and Muslu, Volkan and Koo, Minjae, Lost in Translation? Analysts’ Forecasts of Cross-Listed Firms (April 21, 2020). Journal of International Accounting Research 19, pp. 41-64, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3581431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
O H Abd-Elsalam , P Weetman
Introducing international accounting standards to an emerging capital market: Relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
K D Allee , L S Anderson , M J Crawley
The impact of linguistic distance and financial reporting readability on foreign holdings of U.S. stocks. Working paper Posted: 2019
D Altschuler , G Chen , J Zhou
Anticipation of management forecasts and analysts' private information search
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 803 - 838 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,627
RANK
381,120
4 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies