Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do African Countries Adopt IFRS? An Institutional Perspective

Boolaky, P., Tawiah, V. Soobaroyen, T. (2020). The International Journal of Accounting (Online Ready)

53 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020

Vincent Tawiah

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; Griffith University; University of Cape Coast; Dublin City University Business School

Date Written: April 23, 2020

Abstract

We examine the institutional drivers of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption in Africa. The study covers all 54 African countries and relies on data from 2010 to 2015. Our results support the neo-institutional theoretical predictions that coercive, mimetic, and normative isomorphism influence IFRS adoption in Africa, although the circuits of isomorphic pressures differ from previous studies investigating adoption at the worldwide level and in emerging economies. Specifically, we find evidence of the influence by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund on African countries made subject to the Report on Observance of Standards and Codes – Accounting and Auditing program of assessment. We also found that the presence of global audit firms and the years of membership in the International Federation of Accountants are strongly associated with a country’s decision to adopt IFRS. Also, countries with a more structured and active professional accounting organization are more likely to adopt IFRS. Our findings provide insights into the significant role played by local professional accounting organizations in the promotion of IFRS. Furthermore, we provide empirical evidence that the nature of the isomorphic pressures in Africa is different from those suggested in prior studies, reinforcing the view that IFRS adoption is primarily driven by social and political dimensions, rather than the economic dimension usually professed by IFRS proponents.

Keywords: Accounting; Africa; IFRS adoption; neo-institutional theory

Suggested Citation:

Tawiah, Vincent and Tawiah, Vincent, Why Do African Countries Adopt IFRS? An Institutional Perspective (April 23, 2020). Boolaky, P., Tawiah, V. Soobaroyen, T. (2020). The International Journal of Accounting (Online Ready), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
M Al-Akra , M J Ali , O Marashdeh
Development of accounting regulation in Jordan
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 44 , p. 163 - 186 Posted: 2009
Crossref
N Albu , C N Albu , S Bunea , D A Calu , M Girbina
A story about IAS/IFRS implementation in Romania: An institutional and structuration theory perspective
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 1 , p. 76 - 100 Posted: 2011
A Alon , P Dwyer
Early adoption of IFRS as a strategic response to transnational and local influences
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 49 , p. 348 - 370 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J J Archambault , M E Archambault
An analysis of social factors influencing the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
Journal for Global Business Advancement , volume 2 , p. 38 - 53 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,507
RANK
327,319
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Microeconomic Issues in Developing Economies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies