Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality of Governance and Momentum Profits: International Evidence

British Accounting Review, Vol. 51, No. 5, 2019

Posted: 20 May 2020

Mohamed Sherif

Edinburgh Business School

Date Written: November 4, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the presence of momentum (sell past losers and buy past winners)and proposes accountability, level of corruption, and governance effectiveness as a novel explanation for return continuation phenomena in an international setting. In essence, we test the possibility of beating the international stock markets and producing abnormal profits from momentum investing. We found that both accountability and level of corruption are significantly correlated with government effectiveness. Countries and institutional environments with better scores on the accountability and control of corruption indices maintain better levels of governance effectiveness. In addition, through an analysis of the international momentum strategies, the paper shows that the quality of governance as captured by accountability, government effectiveness, and control of corruption, significantly affect the international momentum profits. Overall, the findings explain the presence of momentum and add a fresh dimension to the literature that the quality of governance influences the stability of financial markets, which is of significant importance in understanding pricing effects and stock market anomalies. Our findings are robust, having been subjected to a range of robustness checks.

Suggested Citation:

Sherif, Mohamed, The Quality of Governance and Momentum Profits: International Evidence (November 4, 2019). British Accounting Review, Vol. 51, No. 5, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3583545
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
644
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies