Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting and Trade Credit: Evidence from Mandatory IFRS Adoption

Contemporary Accounting Research, 38 (1), (2021), 96-128.

Posted: 27 May 2020 Last revised: 27 Sep 2021

Xiao Li

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Walid Saffar

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 7, 2020

Abstract

We investigate the effect of mandatory international financial reporting standards (IFRS) adoption on trade credit. We document that firms in countries that adopt IFRS receive more trade credit from their suppliers, consistent with improved financial reporting quality and comparability playing a role in facilitating informal financing. This increase is larger for countries with a low level of societal trust, a poor pre-IFRS-adoption information environment, and stronger legal enforcement. These cross-sectional results suggest that the conditions under which higher quality information is made publicly available affect suppliers’ decisions to provide trade credit. This increase is also larger for firms with greater exposure to foreign markets, a finding that highlights the importance of more comparable international financial reporting standards in facilitating cross-country trade credit. We also find that IFRS adoption has a stronger positive effect on trade credit for firms with greater liquidity needs. Finally, we find that firms in countries that adopt IFRS also extend more trade credit to their customers. Overall, our results support the notion that financial reporting can have a causal effect on trade credit.

Keywords: IFRS, Trade credit, Financial reporting, Information risk

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G15, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xiao and Ng, Jeffrey and Saffar, Walid, Financial Reporting and Trade Credit: Evidence from Mandatory IFRS Adoption (April 7, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, 38 (1), (2021), 96-128., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3588607
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
984
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies