Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Life Cycle and the Disclosure of Estimates and Judgments in Goodwill Impairment Tests: Evidence from Australia

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, April 2020

53 Pages Posted: 1 May 2020 Last revised: 21 Aug 2025

Humayun Kabir

Auckland University of Technology

Li Su

Auckland University of Technology

Asheq Rahman

Auckland University of Technology - Faculty of Business & Law

Date Written: April 29, 2020

Abstract

The goodwill impairment disclosure literature examines the association between firm-and country-level factors and the disclosure of estimates and judgments used in the goodwill impairment test under International Accounting Standard 36. Although the accounting literature provides competing predictions between firm life cycle and these disclosures, prior studies did not explore the role of firm life cycle in these disclosures. This paper fills in this gap in the literature, and documents that, in Australia, these disclosures vary by life cycle stages and that firm size moderates this association. We, however, find that the differences are more pronounced for some disclosure items than for others.

Keywords: Goodwill impairment; firm life cycle; accounting estimates and judgments; note disclosures; disclosure regulation; Australia

JEL Classification: G34; M41

Suggested Citation:

Kabir, Humayun and Su, Li and Rahman, Asheq, Firm Life Cycle and the Disclosure of Estimates and Judgments in Goodwill Impairment Tests: Evidence from Australia (April 29, 2020). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, April 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3589893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Audit. J. Pract. Th , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
J Aharony , H Falk , N Yehuda
Corporate life cycle and the relative value-relevance of cash flow versus accrual financial information Posted: 2004-04
H Amiraslani , G E Iatridis , P F Pope
Accounting for asset impairment: A test for IFRS compliance across Europe. Centre for Financial Analysis and Reporting Research Posted: 2013
P André , D Dionysiou , I Tsalavoutas
Mandated disclosures under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: Value relevance and impact on analysts' forecasts
Appl. Econ , volume 50 , p. 707 - 725 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5
ABSTRACT VIEWS
790
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies