Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Response to Macroeconomic Uncertainty: Implications for Firm Profitability

Forthcoming in The Accounting Review

51 Pages Posted: 20 May 2020 Last revised: 9 Dec 2021

Oliver Binz

ESMT European School of Management and Technology

Date Written: May 2, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines how agents’ response to macroeconomic uncertainty affects firms’ revenues, expenses, and profitability in a global sample of firms spanning 1997 to 2018. Consistent with consumers reducing purchases and managers cutting costs, I find that increases in macroeconomic uncertainty lead to both lower revenues and lower expenses. The net short-term effect on profitability is positive as the reduction in expenses exceeds the fall in revenues. This favorable profitability effect is attenuated for firms whose institutional environment restrains cost-cutting, holds for both the cash and accrual components of earnings, and is robust to instrumental variable estimation employing exogenous variation in macroeconomic uncertainty arising from natural disasters, political unrest, revolutions, and terrorist attacks.

Keywords: Macroeconomic Uncertainty, Consumption, Investment, Firm Profitability

JEL Classification: E22, D81, M41

Suggested Citation:

Binz, Oliver, Managerial Response to Macroeconomic Uncertainty: Implications for Firm Profitability (May 2, 2020). Forthcoming in The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3591050 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3591050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are Selling, General, and Administrative Costs "Sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
G.-M Angeletos , C Hellwig , A Pavan
Signaling in a Global Game: Coordination and Policy Traps
Journal of Political Economy , volume 114 , issue 3 , p. 452 - 484 Posted: 2006
S Arif , N Marshall , T L Yohn
Understanding the Relation between Accruals and Volatility: A Real Options-Based Investment Approach
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 86 Posted: 2016
R Bachmann , G Moscarini
Business Cycles and Endogenous Uncertainty Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
699
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,577
RANK
84,788
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies