Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence to IFRS: A Comparative Analysis of Accounting Standards in India.

International Journal Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Jun 2020

Vincent Tawiah

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; Griffith University; University of Cape Coast; Dublin City University Business School

Date Written: May 14, 2020

Abstract

This study has employed summative content analysis to measure de-jure harmonisation between the Indian converged IFRS (Ind.AS) and IFRS under the headings Definition Terms (DT), Measurement and Recognition (M/R), and Presentation and Disclosures (P/D). The study has also introduced the convergence index, which was used to investigate differences that the convergences process has removed between the existing GAAP (AS) and IFRS.

There are significant differences between Ind.AS and IFRS in Measurement/Recognition and Presentation/Disclosure. The convergence index shows that Ind.AS has removed about 86% of the difference between the existing local GAAP (AS) and IFRS. The most interesting difference between Ind.AS and IFRS is that Ind.AS provides options where IFRS does not, while IFRS also provides options where Ind.AS does not.

Users of financial statements should understand that, although India has converged to IFRS, there are significant differences between Measurement/Recognition and Presentation/Disclosure of some major transactions. However, most of the differences between IFRS and Ind.AS are time and transaction-specific likely to be undertaken by large companies; hence, it may not reflect in financial statements of small and medium enterprises.

The study makes a methodological contribution by introducing a convergence index which measures how a country has bridge the gap between local GAAP and IFRS


Keywords: IFRS, Ind. AS, Convergence, Adoption, India

Suggested Citation:

Tawiah, Vincent and Tawiah, Vincent, Convergence to IFRS: A Comparative Analysis of Accounting Standards in India. (May 14, 2020). International Journal Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3600759
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies