Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of IAS/IFRS, Liquidity Constraints, and Credit Rationing: The Case of the European Banking Industry

Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance, Vol. 63, 2017

Université Paris-Dauphine Research Paper No. 3601597

Posted: 9 Jun 2020

Hervé Alexandre

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University; Université Paris Dauphine

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

With imperfections, theory suggests that banks dependent on external resources have greater difficulty refinancing their lending than banks with a lot of internal resources. Hence, there is an increased risk of credit rationing to these institutions. In this context, this empirical study tests the hypothesis that the adoption of the IAS/IFRS, deemed as of superior quality for economic decision-making, results in an increase in the amount of credit offered by banks with liquidity constraints. For a sample of European banks over the period of 2003–2008, we find that results are only partly consistent with this hypothesis. The results depend on the measure of the constraint, the bank size, and the enforcement regime. Our results show that the adoption (both voluntary and mandatory) of the IAS/IFRS lead to an increase in the credit supply only for small and constrained banks. These results are important with respect to the goal of banking stability and with the scarcity of credit observed in Europe since the financial crisis.

Keywords: Banks, IAS/IFRS, Liquidity, Credit Rationing

JEL Classification: G21,M41

Suggested Citation:

Alexandre, Hervé, Adoption of IAS/IFRS, Liquidity Constraints, and Credit Rationing: The Case of the European Banking Industry (2017). Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance, Vol. 63, 2017, Université Paris-Dauphine Research Paper No. 3601597, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3601597
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
552
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Universite Paris-Dauphine Research Papers Series

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies