Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Switching From Incurred to Expected Loan Loss Provisioning: Early Evidence

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

83 Pages Posted: 27 May 2020 Last revised: 26 Jan 2021

Germán López-Espinosa

School of Economics - University of Navarra and IESE Business School

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Yuki Sakasai

IESE Business School

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 20, 2020

Abstract

This paper provides early evidence on the effect of global regulation mandating a switch from loan loss provisioning (LLP) based on incurred credit losses (ICL) to LLP based on expected credit losses (ECL). Using a sample of systemically important banks from 74 countries, we find that ECL provisions are more predictive of future bank risk than ICL provisions. Corroborating that the switch to ECL provisioning results in more information to assess bank risk, we also observe that the announcement of a larger first-time impact of the accounting change elicits lower stock returns and higher changes in CDS spreads. Critically, these patterns are most pronounced when credit conditions deteriorate. Additional analyses show that the higher information content of the ECL model stems from the provisions for non-defaulted loans, which did not exist under ICL. Our study contributes to the debate on the effect of the ECL model on procyclicality, an especially pressing issue in the context of the current pandemic.

Keywords: Expected credit losses, loan loss provision, bank accounting, IFRS 9

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

López-Espinosa, Germán and Ormazabal, Gaizka and Sakasai, Yuki, Switching From Incurred to Expected Loan Loss Provisioning: Early Evidence (December 20, 2020). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3603056 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3603056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
J Abad , J Suarez
The Procyclicality of Expected Credit Loss Provisions
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP13135 Posted: 2018
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , Thomas , S
Bank loan loss provisions: a re-examination of capital management, earnings management and signalling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
K Andries , J Gallemore , Jacob , M
The effect of corporate taxation on bank transparency: Evidence from loan loss provisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , p. 307 - 328 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Badia , M Barth , M Duro , G Ormazabal
Firm Risk and Disclosures about Dispersion of Asset Values: Evidence from Oil and Gas Reserves
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Bernardo Morais , Gaizka Ormazabal , Jose-Luis Peydro , Monica Roa , Miguel Sarmiento
Forward Looking Loan Provisions: Credit Supply and Risk-Taking
CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP15278 · 55 Pages · Posted: 22 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 4
 Add To Cart  Add Paper to My Library
Bernardo Morais , Gaizka Ormazabal , Jose-Luis Peydro , Monica Roa , Miguel Sarmiento
Forward Looking Loan Provisions: Credit Supply and Risk-Taking
CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2020-027, European Banking Center Series No. 2020-002 · 52 Pages · Posted: 17 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 229
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
778
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,551
RANK
73,674
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies