Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-Specific Drivers of the Value Relevance of Goodwill Impairment Losses

Alshehabi, A., G. Georgiou and A. Ala (2020), “Country-Specific Drivers of the Value Relevance of Goodwill Impairment Losses.” Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (Forthcoming).

49 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2020

Ahmad Alshehabi

Canterbury Christ Church University

George Georgiou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Alessandro Ala

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU)

Date Written: March 31, 2020

Abstract

This study is the first to analyze the value relevance of goodwill impairment losses (GIL) in an international context; therefore, it builds a link between institutional, cultural, and religious factors and cross-country variations in the relevance of GIL. Using a sample of 18,143 firm-year observations drawn from 21 countries during the period 2005–2018, we find that firms, on average, have reported GIL that are value relevant to their investors. However, consistent with the litigation perspective, the value relevance of GIL is found to be substantially higher for firms domiciled in countries with high-level institutional quality (IQ) than for firms in countries where IQ is relatively low. Our findings remain robust after controlling for macroeconomic effects or excluding observations from the biggest countries, which constitute a substantial proportion of the data set that we analyze. Additional tests show that institutional effects, although absorbing religion, did not supersede or restrain cultural effects, suggesting that social norms also influence the relevance of impairment information. Our evidence introduces a new explanation for heterogeneity in value relevance of goodwill impairments, and adds to research on the effects of legal and social norms on value relevance.

Keywords: goodwill impairments, value relevance, institutions, culture, religion, SEM, AMOS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Alshehabi, Ahmad and Georgiou, George and Ala, Alessandro, Country-Specific Drivers of the Value Relevance of Goodwill Impairment Losses (March 31, 2020). Alshehabi, A., G. Georgiou and A. Ala (2020), “Country-Specific Drivers of the Value Relevance of Goodwill Impairment Losses.” Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation (Forthcoming)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3607752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
729
RANK
576,212
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies