Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Half-Century of Resistance to Corporate Disclosure

Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 25, No. 3, 2018

26 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2020

Alex Cobham

Tax Justice Network

Petr Jansky

Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Social Sciences, Institute of Economic Studies

Markus Meinzer

Tax Justice Network

Date Written: November 20, 2018

Abstract

As the complexity of transnational corporations (TNCs) grew in the post-war period, their effective degree of disclosure diverged from what is standardly expected of single-country firms. Country-by-country reporting is the key proposal to reestablish appropriate TNC disclosure, and ultimately TNC accountability – and as such, has been consistently resisted by many TNCs, professional services firms and some key headquarters countries in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This paper charts two main waves of pressure for progress. The first, most visible from the late 1960s to the early 1980s, reflects the claims of the New International Economic Order and the rise of the G77 group of countries, while the second saw international civil society take a leading role. The current phase sees these two impulses combine and may finally deliver meaningful progress. The paper addresses both the political underpinnings and the developing technical component to the claims for deeper TNC disclosure, ultimately shaped into the pursuit of an international standard for public, country-by-country reporting – and the resistance to it. The paper also provides illustrative results based on the existing country-by-country reporting data for banks. It concludes with a discussion of the prospects for country-by-country reporting.

Keywords: Corporate accountability, country-by-country reporting, TNC disclosure, Sustainable Development Goals, tax avoidance, tax havens

Suggested Citation:

Cobham, Alex and Jansky, Petr and Meinzer, Markus, A Half-Century of Resistance to Corporate Disclosure (November 20, 2018). Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 25, No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3621961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
H T Akamah , O.-K Hope , W B Thomas
Tax Havens and Disclosure Aggregation (SSRN Scholarly Paper No. ID 2419573)
Social Science Research Network Posted: 2017
O Amujo , N Cornelius
The Royal Niger Company, Foreign Venturing and the Evolution of Corporate Social Irresponsibility in Nigeria -A Business Historical Perspective
J Bair
Corporations at the United Nations: Echoes of the New International Economic Order? Humanity
An International Journal of Human Rights , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 159 - 171 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C Brooks , C Godfrey , C Hillenbrand , K Money
Do Investors care about Corporate Taxes?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 38 , p. 218 - 248 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Javier Garcia-Bernardo , Petr Jansky , Thomas Tørsløv
Multinational Corporations and Tax Havens: Evidence from Country-by-Country Reporting
Garcia-Bernardo J., Jansky P. and Tørsløv T. (2019): "Multinational Corporations and Tax Havens: Evidence from Country-by-Country Reporting" IES Working Papers 31/2019. IES FSV. Charles University., · 40 Pages · Posted: 29 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 22 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 510
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alex Cobham , Petr Jansky , Chris Jones , Yama Temouri
An Evaluation of the Effects of the European Commission’s Proposals for the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base
Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 28, No. 1, 2021 · 22 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 138
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
RANK
778,997
2 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies