Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax, Regulatory Arbitrage and the Growth of Transnational Corporations

Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 25, No. 3, 2018

28 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2020

Sol Picciotto

Lancaster University Law School; Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, University of London

Date Written: November 20, 2018

Abstract

This paper traces the history of international corporate taxation, discusses how transnational corporations (TNCs), through their tax advisers, have helped to shape the system, and suggests that this is important in understanding the development of TNCs. It argues that a key competitive advantage of TNCs is their ability to exploit differences in corporate tax rules, as a form of regulatory arbitrage, which is facilitated by the inadequate coordination of those rules. It focuses on the divergence between the understanding in business, economics and international studies that TNCs are unitary firms and the principle which has increasingly hardened in international tax rules, especially on transfer pricing, that the various affiliates of TNCs in different countries should be treated as if they were independent entities dealing with each other at arm’s length. It argues that this facilitates tax avoidance, which is one of the strategies of the exploitation of regulatory differences, or regulatory arbitrage, which has contributed to the growth and oligopolistic dominance of large TNCs. While claiming that they merely obey the laws of each country where they do business, TNCs have taken advantage of their global reach to mould laws and normative practices, and develop structures taking maximum advantage of the loose coordination of global governance regimes.

Keywords: arm’s length principle, BEPS, formulary apportionment, transnational corporations, tax avoidance structures

Suggested Citation:

Picciotto, Sol, International Tax, Regulatory Arbitrage and the Growth of Transnational Corporations (November 20, 2018). Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 25, No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3621965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , E J Lusk
Transfer Pricing -a Synthesis
The Accounting Review , volume 49 , p. 8 - 23 Posted: 1974
E Adler , P M Haas
Conclusion: Epistemic Communities, World Order, and the Creation of a Reflective Research Program
International Organization , volume 46 , p. 367 - 390 Posted: 1992
Crossref
E Adler , S Bernstein
Knowledge in Power: The Epistemic Construction of Global Governance
Power in Global Governance , p. 294 - 318 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Andrus , R Collier
Transfer Pricing and the Arm's Length Principle After BEPS Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
957
RANK
475,660
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies