Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Getting Women on Board: Some Reflections on Research on Board Gender Diversity

International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 55, No. 1, 2020.

10 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Diane Breesch

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Date Written: April 14, 2020

Abstract

Al-Shaer and Harakeh (2020) and Lopatta et al. (2020) study different aspects of the relationship between board gender diversity and corporate outcomes, respectively executive compensation and non-ﬁnancial performance. In this discussion, we oﬀer a broad overview of the main results of both studies, provide some points of discussion in relationship to these specific studies, and elaborate on a number of additional points that link the current studies to the broader literature on board gender diversity and gender research in accounting more generally. We conclude with some suggestions for future research.

Keywords: gender, board of directors, diversity, equality, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41, M48, J16, G34

Suggested Citation:

Hardies, Kris and Breesch, Diane, Getting Women on Board: Some Reflections on Research on Board Gender Diversity (April 14, 2020). International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 55, No. 1, 2020., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3623096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
R B Adams
Women on boards: The superheroes of tomorrow? The Leadership Quarterly , volume 27 , p. 371 - 386 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter? Management Science , volume 58 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Crossref
H Al-Shaer , M Harakeh
Gender differences in executive compensation on British corporate boards: The role of conditional conservatism
The International Journal of Accounting Posted: 2019
Crossref
N Burns , S Kedia
The impact of performance-based compensation on misreporting
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 67 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,138
RANK
449,075
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies