Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards a solution to the variety in accounting practices of extractive firms under IFRS

Australian Accounting Review (forthcoming)

34 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2020 Last revised: 10 Aug 2021

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Christian Stadler

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: July 3, 2021

Abstract

Accounting for exploration and evaluation (E&E) costs is one of the last major issues to remain largely unregulated by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), even though extractive firms are an important part of several big stock markets. Under a temporary permissive standard (IFRS 6), which has been in place since 2004, firms use a wide range of accounting policies for E&E costs, thus undermining comparability. We review the IFRS annual reports of a large number of firms, looking for different policies. We identify many distinguishable methods of accounting. Along with this, we discover that disclosures are often confusing, partly because of the lack of definitions in IFRS 6. To aid insight into this complexity, we prepare a classification of these methods and give real examples of each. We then assess the methods in the context of IFRS 6 and other relevant parts of IFRS. We find that nearly all the methods comply with IFRS. This leads us to a proposal for narrowing the variety of practice by withdrawing IFRS 6, and putting E&E costs within the scope of IAS 38 Intangible Assets. As part of this, IAS 38 could be further revised to extend the scope of capitalisation of other development costs, thereby addressing one of the criticisms of current reporting practice and bringing IAS 38 more into line with the latest version of the Conceptual Framework.

Keywords: extractive industry accounting; IFRS 6; oil & gas accounting; mining accounting; international accounting policy choice; intangible assets

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Nobes, Christopher William and Stadler, Christian, Towards a solution to the variety in accounting practices of extractive firms under IFRS (July 3, 2021). Australian Accounting Review (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3624733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3624733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
H Abdo
Accounting for extractive industries: Has IFRS 6 harmonised accounting practices by extractive industries?
Australian Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 346 - 359 Posted: 2016
Crossref
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: the wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
E Amir , B Lev , T Sougiannis
Do financial analysts get intangibles?
European Accounting Review , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 635 - 659 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS -10 years later
Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,560
RANK
388,855
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies