Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Varied international practice in accounting for extractive activities

51 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2020 Last revised: 29 Apr 2022

Christian Stadler

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: April 20, 2022

Abstract

The key issues in extractive accounting under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are hardly regulated under a long-running ‘temporary’ standard, IFRS 6. We provide comprehensive empirical evidence on the varied international practice in accounting for exploration and evaluation (E&E) costs under IFRS 6. We distinguish 10 different polices by hand-collecting data from the reports of 301 firms from 10 countries on two dimensions: the scope of costs capitalized and the size of the impairment pool. Firms frequently use the policy labels ‘successful efforts’, ‘area of interest’ or ‘full cost’ when disclosing their E&E policies but none of these labels is defined in IFRS. We compare the policy methods (as assessed by us) with the policy labels disclosed, and show that the labels do not generally comply with the methods as defined in any authoritative literature. We then analyze the determinants of E&E policy choice under IFRS. First, we hypothesize and find that policy methods differ between countries, that mining firms use more conservative policies than oil & gas firms, and that (for mining firms) more conservative policies are used by producing firms than by firms whose only activity is E&E. Second, we analyze E&E policy choice by examining the labels disclosed by firms instead of their policy methods (as assessed by us). As many firms do not disclose policy labels, analyses based on labels (as in previous research) generate biased samples and misleading results. Finally, we hypothesize and find that the US version of the successful efforts method is more likely to be used by oil & gas firms and by firms with a US listing. Our findings, especially those on undefined labels, are relevant for the IASB’s current research program on extractive activities.

Keywords: IFRS 6, accounting choice, extractive, mining, oil and gas, international differences

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Stadler, Christian and Nobes, Christopher William, Varied international practice in accounting for extractive activities (April 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3627080 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3627080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Power
it is clear that the categorization of E&E policies is based on disclosures of the labels because Abdo's Table 1 shows the numbers of firms by the three labels (SE, FC and AI) plus a 'Not clearly stated' category. 22 Power et al. (2017, Table 1) do not include the AI label but set out detailed descriptions of 'Expense all
SE and FC; and these were adopted in full by Constantatos et al Posted: 2016
Abdo's
There is also no discussion of the scope of costs collected or the impairment pools, which would be necessary aspects of identifying real policy methods
References Abdo , H
Accounting for Extractive Industries: Has IFRS 6 Harmonised Accounting Practices by Extractive Industries?
Australian Accounting Review , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 346 - 359 Posted: 2016
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An exploratory study of the valuation properties of crosslisted firms' IAS and U.S. GAAP earnings and book values
Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
Load more
2 Citations
Corinne Cortese , Lee Moerman , Millicent Chang
Is the extractive industries standard still fit for purpose?
Accounting & Finance , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 2807 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Dionysia Dionysiou , Sotirios Kokkinos , Ioannis Tsalavoutas , Fanis Tsoligkas
Exploration and Evaluation Expenditures and the Cost of Debt Financing
53 Pages · Posted: 10 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 165
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,794
RANK
273,040
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies