Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Use of International Accounting and Financial Reporting Standards in Enterprise Management

International Journal of Management, 11 (5), 2020, pp. 788-796.

9 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2020

M. Kotsupatriy

Kyiv National Economic University named after Vadym Hetman, Kyiv, Ukraine

I. Ksonzhyk

Mykolayiv National Agrarian University, Mykolayiv, Ukraine

S. Skrypnyk

Kherson State Agrarian University, Kherson, Ukraine

I. Shepel

Kherson State Agrarian University, Kherson, Ukraine

S. Koval

Kherson State Agrarian University, Kherson, Ukraine

Date Written: June 19, 2020

Abstract

The subject of the research is a set of theoretical, methodological, organizational and practical bases for the formation of financial statements of enterprises in the context of its harmonization with international standards and management needs. The purpose of this work is to determine the advantages, functions and prospects of using international standards in accounting and financial reporting to improve enterprise management. The methodological basis of the article is both General scientific and special methods of scientific knowledge. Methods were used: dialectical, monographic, historical, system-structural analysis and synthesis, problem-and program-oriented approaches. The article defines the advantages, functions and prospects of using international standards in accounting and financial reporting to improve enterprise management. It is proved that the globalization of markets and the creation of a single international economic space actualizes the need to create in the enterprise management system such accounting, financial reporting and control, which would be built on the basis of the same principles and rules. It is determined that in modern conditions of activity management, international standards are an effective tool for increasing transparency and clarity of information that reveals the activities of business entities, creates a reliable basis for recognizing expenses, provides an opportunity to objectively disclose the financial risks of the enterprise and compare the results of activities. The conceptual framework provides that, depending on the legislation of the state in which the company operates, regulatory and additional reserves may be created as part of its own capital. The conclusions and results of the article can be used in the educational and scientific process of economic faculties of higher educational institutions. It is advisable to transfer them for practical use in enterprise management in order to increase its efficiency on innovative principles. It is important for the management of enterprises not only to use international standards in the organization of accounting and reporting, but also Notes to them. The notes to the annual financial statements should disclose the analysis of other comprehensive income by item, as well as information about the types of shares, indicating for each of them the par value, the amount of dividends recognized as payments to owners during this period, as well as the corresponding amount of dividends per share. In addition, it is necessary to detail the components of registered capital (the number of shares issued, indicating the amount paid, outstanding, and those withdrawn at the end of the reporting period). In order to obtain complete information for the management of enterprises, it is advisable to provide a description of each of the reserves created by the decision of the owners, with a definition of the documentary basis for its creation, as well as the purposes for which the reserve may be directed.


Keywords: management, system, enterprises, information, accounting, financial reporting, organization, international standards, improvements

Suggested Citation:

Kotsupatriy, M. and Ksonzhyk, I. and Skrypnyk, S. and Shepel, I. and Koval, S., Use of International Accounting and Financial Reporting Standards in Enterprise Management (June 19, 2020). International Journal of Management, 11 (5), 2020, pp. 788-796., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3631031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
N E Tsitska
Stages of implementation of international accounting and financial reporting standards in Ukraine
Bulletin of the Lviv commercial Academy. A series of economic , volume 46 , p. 182 - 185 Posted: 2014
I Chugunov , V Makohon
Fiscal strategy as an instrument of economic growth
Baltic Journal of Economic Studies , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 213 - 217 Posted: 2019
Crossref
S B Shipina
Foreign experience in disclosing information about financial results in financial statements under IFRS
Scientific Bulletin of Kherson state University. Ser.: Economic Sciences , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 147 - 150 Posted: 2016
L O Marmul , I A Romanyuk
Financial support and tax aspects of tourism development in Ukraine , volume 42 , p. 204 - 210 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,753
RANK
151,526
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies