Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of National Culture in the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards

El-Helaly, M., Ntim, C.G. and Soliman, M. (2020). The role of national culture in the adoption of international financial reporting standards. Research in International Business and Finance, Forthcoming

30 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2020

Moataz El-Helaly

School of Business, The American University in Cairo

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Mark T. Soliman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: June 21, 2020

Abstract

We examine the relation between four cultural dimensions and countries’ decisions to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) around the world. Using a sample of 76 non-EU countries, we analyze IFRS adoption decisions during the period 2003-2014 to test the hypothesis that country differences in cultural traits can explain parts of the variation in countries’ decisions to adopt IFRS. We find that countries with higher levels of uncertainty avoidance are more likely to adopt IFRS. Additionally, they are more likely to commit to early adoption largely on a voluntary rather than mandatory basis. On the other hand, countries with higher values of masculinity are more likely to adopt IFRS early, but the extent (whether voluntary or mandatory adoption) of adoption is not significantly related to masculinity. The results, which are robust to a number of alternative explanations and specifications, suggest that differences in national culture had a significant role in countries’ reaction to the introduction of IFRS as a set of unified accounting standards targeting the harmonization of accounting standards adopted across different jurisdictions.

Keywords: Culture, IFRS, Institutions, macroeconomic factors.

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

El-Helaly, Moataz and Ntim, Collins G. and Soliman, Mark T., The Role of National Culture in the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (June 21, 2020). El-Helaly, M., Ntim, C.G. and Soliman, M. (2020). The role of national culture in the adoption of international financial reporting standards. Research in International Business and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3632217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Reidl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS -10 years later
Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,257
RANK
368,259
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies