Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Uncertainty and Accounting Quality

The Accounting Review

54 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2020 Last revised: 7 Mar 2023

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Hyo Jin Yoon

University of Texas at El Paso

Date Written: June 23, 2020

Abstract

Using data from 19 countries over the 1990–2015 period, we examine how economic policy uncertainty (EPU) affects accounting quality. We find that accounting quality, measured based on Nikolaev’s (2018) model, increases during periods of high policy uncertainty. This relation is confirmed by the negative association between EPU and performance-adjusted discretionary accruals in a multivariate setting, and it extends to various alternative measures of earnings properties. We also find that the positive relation between EPU and accounting quality is more pronounced for government-dependent firms and firms with higher political risk. Additional analyses based on institutional investors’ trading behavior, media freedom, and press circulation suggest that market participants’ attention is a mechanism through which EPU affects accounting quality. Further, we find evidence that high accounting quality can mitigate the negative effects of EPU on corporate investment and valuation.

Keywords: economic policy uncertainty; accounting quality; earnings management; investor attention; monitoring; press freedom

Suggested Citation:

El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Kim, Yongtae and Yoon, Hyo Jin, Policy Uncertainty and Accounting Quality (June 23, 2020). The Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3634315
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J Wooldridge
When Should You Adjust Standard Errors for Clustering? Working paper Posted: 2017
I Abramova , J E Core , A Sutherland
Institutional Investor Attention and Firm Disclosure Posted: 2019
H Ahir , N Bloom , D Furceri
The World Uncertainty Index Posted: 2018
A Alesina
Macroeconomic policy in a two-party system as a repeated game
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 102 , issue 3 , p. 651 - 678 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,027
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,317
RANK
18,261
31 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies