Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance With Pension-Related Mandatory Disclosures and Debt Financing

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, 2021, 48 (1-2), 148-184. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12479

Posted: 20 Jul 2020 Last revised: 2 Jun 2023

Khadija Almaghrabi

King Abdulaziz University

Kwaku K. Opong

University of Glasgow - Adam Smith Business School

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Date Written: June 26, 2020

Abstract

Using hand-collected data on the level of pension-related mandatory disclosures required by International Accounting Standard 19 Employee Benefits, we test whether compliance levels with these disclosures convey information that affects firms’ access to the public instead of the private debt market, as well as the cost of their new debt issues. We document a higher tendency to access the public debt market for firms with higher levels of pension-related disclosure. Furthermore, we find that firms with higher levels of pension-related disclosure enjoy a lower cost in terms of issuance of public debt, but not a lower cost for private debt issues. Thus, the benefits of disclosure in reducing information risk are only realizable when creditors rely heavily on financial statements in their decision making, due to the limited access to private information. Additional tests reveal that high compliance levels effectively mitigate the negative effect of pension deficits on the cost of public debt. These findings provide novel evidence in the extant literature on the role of mandatory (and, in particular, pension-related) disclosures on firms’ debt financing. They also have important policy implications.

Keywords: Pension-Related Mandatory Disclosure, Compliance, Public and Private Debt Markets, Cost of Debt, IFRS

JEL Classification: G10, G14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Almaghrabi, Khadija and Opong, Kwaku K. and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis, Compliance With Pension-Related Mandatory Disclosures and Debt Financing (June 26, 2020). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, 2021, 48 (1-2), 148-184. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbfa.12479 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3636470 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3636470
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
888
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies