Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Convergence with IFRS on Selected Pharmaceuticals Companies in India

Pavithran, A.,Selvam, M., Miencha, I.O., Jayapal, G.,Kathiravan,C.(2020).Impact of convergence with IFRS on selected pharmaceuticals companies in India. Journal of Advanced Research in Dynamical and Control Systems, 12 (4 Special Issue), pp. 183-191.

9 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2020

Murugesan Selvam

Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University

Date Written: July 1, 2020

Abstract

This research paper proposes to analyse the impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), on pharmaceutical companies. A graphical representation of its impact on the key performance indicators, after converging with IFRS, is presented in this paper. This study compared the financial ratios, prepared by using IGAAP and IFRS, on the date of transition, i.e. 1st April 2016, using Wilcoxon Signed Ranked Test. The study has exhibited significantly positive impact on most of the ratios under IFRS, when compared to those derived under Indian GAAP.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Indian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (IGAAP) and Financial Ratios

Suggested Citation:

Selvam, Murugesan, Impact of Convergence with IFRS on Selected Pharmaceuticals Companies in India (July 1, 2020). Pavithran, A.,Selvam, M., Miencha, I.O., Jayapal, G.,Kathiravan,C.(2020).Impact of convergence with IFRS on selected pharmaceuticals companies in India. Journal of Advanced Research in Dynamical and Control Systems, 12 (4 Special Issue), pp. 183-191. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3640071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
P Amrutha , M Selvam , C Kathiravan
Impact of Converging to IFRS on Key Financial Ratios with Reference to BSE Listed Firms
International Journal of Psychosocial Rehabilitation , volume 23 Posted: 2019
S Bhatia , A Tripathy
Impact of IFRS adoption on reporting of firm efficiency: case of Indian IT firms
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation , volume 14 , issue 2/3 Posted: 2018-02
Crossref
S Callao , J I Jarne , J A Laínez
Adoption of IFRS in Spain: effect on the comparability and relevance of financial reporting
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 148 - 178 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Collette E Kirwan , Aileen Pierce
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules -Evidence from Ireland
Accounting in Europe , volume 14 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
963
RANK
379,264
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies