Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Small Companies Measure Their Performance?

Problems and Perspectives in Management, 2006

20 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2020

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

This study reports the results of questionnaire surveys with companies that hire less than 20 employees in Finland the UK on how performance be measured. The results are: First, both the Finnish and UK companies rely on employees, production lines and activities to formulate their performance measurement system. Second, both the Finnish and UK companies use both the financial and non-financial variables to measure their performance despite the UK companies tend to emphasise more on the financial variables. Third, factor analysis shows that environmental and non-human production factors play a major part on the performance of these small companies. The results make major contributions to the business community and managers in decision-making processes. Future research could expand the sample size and include other methods of capturing data for analysis.

Keywords: Performance measurements, small companies, questionnaire surveys, financial and non-financial variables

JEL Classification: M1, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chong, H Gin, How Do Small Companies Measure Their Performance? (2006). Problems and Perspectives in Management, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3643593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
C Adimando , R Butler , S Malley , S A Ravid , R Shepro , R H Vernon , J Willet , J Zimmerman
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , p. 46 - 70 Posted: 1994
Crossref
H Andersin , J Karjalainen , T Laakso
Suoritusten mittaus ohjausvälineenä. Performance Measurement as a Steering Tool (in Finnish) Posted: 1994
S W Anderson , S M Young
The impact of contextual and process factors on the evaluation of activity-based costing systems
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 24 , p. 525 - 559 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M Berry
Strategic Planning in Small High Tech Companies. Long Range Planning , volume 31 , p. 455 - 466 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
839
RANK
799,009
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies