Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
So Similar, yet So Different: Comparing the US GAAP and IFRS Experience at Eliciting Greater Transparency on Pension Asset Disclosures

61 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2020 Last revised: 13 Jan 2023

Divya Anantharaman

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Elizabeth Chuk

University of California, Irvine

Tonni Xia

San Diego State University

Date Written: January 11, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether regulatory mandates intended to improve disclosure can lead to greater transparency in the absence of a change in preparer incentives to obfuscate that disclosure. We exploit a sequence of two otherwise similar regulatory changes, one under US GAAP and the other under IFRS, which have one key difference—while both changes mandate improvements to the disclosure of pension asset allocation, only the latter removes preparer incentives to disclose opaquely (by eliminating a key reporting assumption—the expected rate of return on pension assets or ERR, which can be more effectively manipulated if asset allocation remains opaque). We construct two difference-in-difference research designs to examine and compare disclosure outcomes for both changes. We find that the IFRS disclosure standard is effective at improving pension asset transparency as intended, whereas the US standard—which only mandates better disclosure while leaving unchanged preparers’ incentives to obfuscate—is not as effective at improving pension asset transparency. Further tests isolate the IFRS improvement to firms likely to have inflated their ERRs before the change. Overall, our study highlights the potential for standard-setters to learn from each other, by comparing and contrasting their regulatory experience on a specific accounting topic with clearly identifiable incentives.

Keywords: Accounting regulation, standard-setting, defined benefit pension, IAS 19R, SFAS 132R

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Anantharaman, Divya and Chuk, Elizabeth and Xia, Shijun, So Similar, yet So Different: Comparing the US GAAP and IFRS Experience at Eliciting Greater Transparency on Pension Asset Disclosures (January 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3646842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3646842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
E Amir , S Benartzi
The expected rate of return on pension funds and asset allocation as predictors of portfolio performance
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 3 , p. 335 - 352 Posted: 1998
D Anantharaman , E Chuk
The economic consequences of accounting standards: Evidence from risk-taking in pension plans
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 23 - 51 Posted: 2018
C Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief Executive Officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
S Asthana
Earnings management, expected returns on pension assets, and resource allocation decisions
Journal of Pension Economics and Finance , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 199 - 220 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,632
RANK
238,435
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies