Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Protection, Aggregate Changes in Profit Margins and Forecasts of Growth in GDP: International Evidence

50 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2020 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

Neil L. Fargher

Australian National University (ANU)

Lijuan Zhang

Australian National University

Date Written: April 16, 2023

Abstract

This study draws on the investor protection literature to examine whether differences in a country’s level of investor protections help explain cross-country variation in the extent to which macroeconomic forecasters take account of aggregate changes in corporate profit margins when forecasting future growth in GDP. We find that economies with stronger levels of investor protection have a higher association between changes in aggregate profit margin and GDP growth. Using a unique sample of analysts’ GDP forecasts from 28 countries, we find that economies with stronger levels of investor protection have a lower association between changes in aggregate profit margin and errors in forecasts of GDP growth.

Keywords: aggregate profit margin, GDP growth, investor protection, analyst forecasts of GDP

JEL Classification: G15, G17

Suggested Citation:

Fargher, Neil L. and Zhang, Lijuan, Investor Protection, Aggregate Changes in Profit Margins and Forecasts of Growth in GDP: International Evidence (April 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3652949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3652949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Abdalla , J Carabias
From accounting to economics: The role of aggregate special items in gauging the state of the economy
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2022
A Ali , L S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
S C Anagnostopoulou
Accounting quality and loan pricing: The effect of crosscountry differences in legal enforcement
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 178 - 200 Posted: 2017
W Bailey , H Lai
On the expected earnings hypothesis explanation of the aggregate returns-earnings association puzzle
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 55 , p. 2732 - 2763 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,043
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
49,384
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies