Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Approach/Avoidance Motivation and Gain/Loss-Framing on the Processing of Information Cues by Non-Professional Investors

ESCP Business School Research Paper

44 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2020 Last revised: 25 Jun 2021

Stephanie Jana

ESCP Business School Berlin

Tyge Kummer

Griffith University

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: June 25, 2021

Abstract

Investor judgment and decision-making (JDM) is influenced by several factors. We examine the effect of dispositional goal orientation (approach and avoidance motivation), as well as situational goal orientation (gain- and loss-framing), on non-professional investors’ JDM. In an experiment, 150 business students evaluated the relevance of (positive and negative) information cues and estimated the resulting stock price changes. Results show that approach motivation increases the perceived relevance of (positive and negative) information cues, which in turn results in greater expected stock price changes. The increasing effect that approach motivation has on the perceived relevance of negative information cues is amplified by gain-framing and dampened by loss-framing. Similarly, the effect that the perceived relevance of information cues has on expected stock price changes is amplified under gain-framing and dampened under loss-framing. These results contribute to the JDM literature and have practical implications for non-professional investors.

Keywords: Approach motivation, Avoidance motivation, Gain-loss-framing, Judgment and decision-making, Regulatory focus

JEL Classification: G41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jana, Stephanie and Kummer, Tyge and Schmidt, Martin, The Effects of Approach/Avoidance Motivation and Gain/Loss-Framing on the Processing of Information Cues by Non-Professional Investors (June 25, 2021). ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3664856 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3664856
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
J L Aaker , A J Lee
I" seek pleasures and "we" avoid pains: The role of self-regulatory goals in information processing and persuasion
Journal of Consumer Research , volume 28 , p. 33 - 49 Posted: 2001
K D Allee , N Bhattacharya , E L Black , T E Christensen
Pro forma disclosure and investor sophistication: External validation of experimental evidence using archival data. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 32 , p. 201 - 222 Posted: 2007
H S Asay , W B Elliott , K Rennekamp
Disclosure readability and the sensitivity of investors' valuation judgments to outside information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2017
N Bhattacharya , E L Black , T E Christensen , R D Mergenthaler
Who trades on pro forma earnings information?
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , p. 581 - 619 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
RANK
475,660
2 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies