Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Someone Else’s Problem? The IFRS Enforcement Field in Europe

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2020

Alberto Quagli

Università degli Studi di Genova

Francesco Avallone

Università degli Studi di Genova; Università degli Studi di Genova

Paola Ramassa

Università degli Studi di Genova

Costanza Di Fabio

Università degli Studi di Genova

Date Written: July 24, 2020

Abstract

This study adopts an institutional lens to explore enforcement as a complex and nuanced phenomenon shaped by the dynamics of its social context. It examines an IFRS regulatory incident that fails to conclude with any decision or resolving action in the context of the European Union, and as such invites serious questioning of enforcement functions. From our analysis accounting enforcement emerges as an interacting issue-based field in which auditors and the national enforcement agency adhere narrowly to their tasks, ensuring formal but not substantive IFRS compliance. Field participants are seen to respond to institutional pressures strategically by avoiding public positions and delegating choices to other actors, substantially accepting earnings manipulation. Our study shows that the national enforcer increased its interactions with other regulatory actors (i.e. agencies concerned with the setting and interpretation of standards) in the case of controversial issues and their responses can heavily influence overall enforcement effectiveness. Furthermore, its findings contribute to debates on the need for a pan-European enforcement agency and shed light on the importance of IFRS interpretation for the enforce-ability of international accounting standards.

Keywords: Financial Accounting, Case Study, IFRS Enforcement, Issue-Based Field, Standard Interpretation, Strategic Responses

JEL Classification: M41, M48, E58, G21

Suggested Citation:

Quagli, Alberto and Avallone, Francesco and Ramassa, Paola and Di Fabio, Costanza, Someone Else’s Problem? The IFRS Enforcement Field in Europe (July 24, 2020). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3664058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3664058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball
IFRS: 10 years later. Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
932
RANK
552,835
5 Citations
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies