Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influencing of International Accounting Reporting Standards on Quality of Financial Reports

16 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2020

Tim Sovaniski

University of Primorska

Date Written: July 18, 2020

Abstract

IASB states that the main objective of financial reporting is to provide information that is useful to investors, creditors and others in making investment, credit and similar resource allocation decisions. This study sought to find out if the adoption of IFRS had affected the financial reporting quality of listed firms in Kenya. Sample selection consisted of all companies listed in the Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE) between 1994 and 2003 excluding banking and insurance companies. The study shows that the value relevance of reported earnings was incrementally higher for listed companies during the post-IFRS convergence period than in the pre-IFRS convergence period. Keywords: IFRS, Kenya, Nairobi Securities Exchange. In a sample of 102 non-European Union countries, we study variations in the decision to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). There is evidence that more powerful countries are less likely to adopt IFRS, consistent with more powerful countries being less willing to surrender standard-setting authority to an international body. There is also evidence that the likelihood of IFRS adoption at first increases and then decreases in the quality of countries’ domestic governance institutions, consistent with IFRS being adopted when governments are capable of timely decision making and when the opportunity and switching cost of domestic standards are relatively low. We do not find evidence that levels of and expected changes in foreign trade and investment flows in a country affect its adoption decision: thus, we cannot confirm that IFRS lowers information costs in more globalized economies. Consistent with the presence of network effects in IFRS adoption, we find that a country is more likely to adopt IFRS if its trade partners or countries within in its geographical region are IFRS adopters.

Keywords: IFRS, IASB, Financial Reports, NSE

Suggested Citation:

Sovaniski, Tim, Influencing of International Accounting Reporting Standards on Quality of Financial Reports (July 18, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3665457 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3665457
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Aradhana Relhan
E-Accounting Practices of SMEs in India
International Journal of Technical Research , volume 2 , issue 1 Posted: 2013
Thabit H Thabit , Raewf , B Manaf
The Impact of Voluntary Disclosure on SMEs in Developing Countries
Journal of Global Business and Social Entrepreneurship , volume 4 , issue 5 , p. 19 - 31 Posted: 2016
Al-Nasrawi , A Salam
A Proposed Mechanism to Adapt the Local Environment Variables towards Harmonization with International Standards of Accounting and Financial Reporting IAS/IFRS, M.Sc. Thesis in Accounting Posted: 2017
Enas A Hassan , Michaela Rankin , Wei Lu
The Development of Accounting Regulation in Iraq and the IFRS Adoption Decision: An Institutional Perspective, the
International Journal of Accounting , volume 49 , p. 371 - 390 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,250
RANK
255,505
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies