Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IAS 7 and Value Relevance: The Direct Method Versus the Indirect Method

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2020

Richard Kent

University of Michigan Dearborn

Jacqueline Birt

The University of Western Australia

Date Written: August 13, 2020

Abstract

We identify and predict circumstances where the direct method statement of cash flows is expected to provide more value relevant information to financial statement users. We predict the direct method is more informative when earnings are of lower quality (earnings are less permanent, or companies report losses), companies are in a more stable state (proxied by small absolute changes in accruals/operating cash flow) and when cash flows/accruals are measured with more error using the indirect method. Direct method disclosure is also predicted to be more useful for small companies, where investors have less alternative sources of information beyond financial statements. We analyze Australian companies because they are required to report the direct and indirect method and we further decompose the sample into industrial, mining and company size to take into account the unique features of the Australian market. Our results are consistent with our predictions. This suggests the indirect method is as informative as the direct method on average, but the direct method incrementally informs stock returns in specific circumstances. We also identify operational factors that significantly increase estimation error when estimating direct method line items for cash receipts and cash payment.


Keywords: cash flows, direct method, indirect method, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kent, Richard and Birt, Jacqueline, IAS 7 and Value Relevance: The Direct Method Versus the Indirect Method (August 13, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3673333 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3673333
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
544
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,209
RANK
117,019
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies