Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Model-Based Approach to Determine the Number of Scenarios and Scenario Probabilities for Loan Loss Provision Calculations Under the Accounting Standards of IFRS 9 and US-GAAP CECL

18 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2020

Oliver Blümke

Raiffeisen Bank International

Date Written: August 23, 2020

Abstract

The accounting standards of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US-GAAP) require from financial institutions to consider multiple macroeconomic scenarios when calculating loan loss provisions. At present, however, it is unclear how to determine the number of scenarios and scenario probabilities without resorting to - often subjective - expert judgement. The paper discusses a model-based approach and proposes to use hidden Markov models to determine the number of relevant scenarios and scenario probabilities. The tool of the hidden Markov model allows to use established model selection criteria, such as the Akaike information criterion, to decide on the number of scenarios. Hidden Markov models also provide estimates of the transition matrix of the hidden states, which constitute the required conditional scenario probabilities. The tool of the hidden Markov model is discussed by using a time series of defaults from Standard & Poor's.

Keywords: Hidden Markov model, Loan loss provisions, Scenario probabilities, Default rates, IFRS 9;,US-GAAP CECL

JEL Classification: G24, G28

Suggested Citation:

Blümke, Oliver, A Model-Based Approach to Determine the Number of Scenarios and Scenario Probabilities for Loan Loss Provision Calculations Under the Accounting Standards of IFRS 9 and US-GAAP CECL (August 23, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3679940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3679940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
L B G Andersen , J Sidenius
Extensions to the Gaussian copula: random recovery and random factor loadings
Journal of Credit Risk , volume 1 , p. 29 - 70 Posted: 2004
Crossref
B Baesens , D Rösch , H Scheule
Credit Risk Analytics: Measurement Techniques, Applications, and Examples in SAS Posted: 2016
K Banachewicz , A Lucas , A Van Der Vaart
Modelling portfolio defaults using hidden Markov models with covariates
Econometrics Journal , volume 11 , p. 155 - 171 Posted: 2008
Crossref
G Bhat , S G Ryan , D Vyas
The implications of credit risk modeling for banks' loan loss provisions and loan-origination cyclicality
Management Science , volume 65 , issue 5 , p. 2116 - 2141 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,287
RANK
350,748
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies