Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Communication and the Benefits of Cross-Listing

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

70 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2020

Nayana Reiter

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: September 5, 2020

Abstract

While studies have sought to explain the benefits of cross-listing, little attention has been paid to the role of communication between managers and investors during this process. In this paper, I investigate whether managers change communication policies around U.S. cross-listings. I document significant increases in communication when firms cross-list. I then test whether these investor communication practices around cross-listing are associated with capital market benefits. I find that cross-listed firms that communicate more with investors experience greater and longer lasting cross-listing benefits. Lastly, I explore two potential reasons that may lead managers to choose higher levels of communication: to support an increase in investor recognition and to facilitate monitoring. I find results consistent with communication increasing visibility and scrutiny, suggesting that communication functions as a supporting tool to achieve managers’ cross-listing goals.

Keywords: cross-listing; investor communication; corporate disclosure; valuation premium

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Reiter, Nayana, Investor Communication and the Benefits of Cross-Listing (September 5, 2020). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3682245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3682245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Panel A presents the mean number of corporate access events in the U.S., conference calls in English, press releases, and management forecasts by Cultural Distance, Corruption and English-speaking and non-English-speaking countries
* , * * , *** 10% , 5% , 1% Bailey , W Karolyi , G A Salva , C
Each model includes an intercept and firm and year fixed effects that are omitted from the table for brevity. Robust standard errors are clustered by firm. T-stats are presented in parentheses. *, **, and *** denote two-tailed statistical significance at 10%, 5%, and 1%, respectively. † † †, † †, † indicate that the differences between coefficients are significant at the 0.01, 0.05, and 0.10 level, respectively. Variables are described in Appendix A
Continuous variables are winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentile. References , volume 81 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
H Baker
Why U.S. companies list on the London, Frankfurt and Tokyo stock exchanges
J. Int. Secur. Mark , volume 6 , p. 219 - 227 Posted: 1992
H Baker , J Nofsinger , D Weaver
International cross-listing and visibility
J. Financ. Quant. Anal , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 521 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
RANK
349,147
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies