Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion of 'Economic Consequences of IFRS Adoption: The Role of Changes in Disclosure Quality'

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

15 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2020

Patricia L. Naranjo

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: August 31, 2020

Abstract

Li, Siciliano, and, Venkatachalam (hereafter LSV) propose a two-stage approach to studying the effects of the adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on economic outcomes. The key innovation of their paper is that it links the economic outcomes effect to a particular channel: disclosure quality. LSV first investigate the effect of IFRS adoption on disclosure quality, then link the change in disclosure quality to two economic outcomes: market liquidity and audit fees. To proxy for disclosure quality, the authors use the measure of line-item disclosure disaggregation in the balance sheet and income statement proposed by Chen et al. (2015).

Our discussion proceeds in two steps: First, we discuss the existing literature on this topic and position LSV within it. The goal is to highlight conceptual issues and suggest opportunities for future research. Second, we discuss empirical issues related to the research design and the results. We comment on both stages of LSV’s two-stage approach and suggest possible avenues for future research on this topic.

Keywords: IFRS, IAS, Financial Reporting Regulation, International Accounting, Disclosure Quality

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Naranjo, Patricia L. and Verdi, Rodrigo S., Discussion of 'Economic Consequences of IFRS Adoption: The Role of Changes in Disclosure Quality' (August 31, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3683948 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3683948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS Improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 72 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 24 - 30 Posted: 2002
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Do earnings reported under IFRS tell us more about future earnings and cash flows?
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 124 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Ball , X Li , L Shivakumar
Contractibility and Transparency of Financial Statement Information Prepared Under IFRS: Evidence from Debt Contracts Around IFRS Adoption
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 5 , p. 915 - 63 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
284,192
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies