Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting and Reporting, and Firm Value: Evidence from Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria

Abiahu, M.-F. C., Udeh, N. F., Okegbe, T. O., & Eneh, O. M. (2020). Fair Value Accounting and Reporting, and Firm Value: Evidence from Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria. Asian Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting, 17(1), 46-53. https://doi.org/10.9734/ajeba/2020/v17i130253

8 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2020

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Dr. Francis Udeh

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Theophilus Okegbe

Nnamdi Azikiwe University

Date Written: August 28, 2020

Abstract

The study evaluated the effect of fair value reporting on financial profitability and firm value with focus on deposit money banks listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange Using a sample of 13 banks quoted on the Exchange, the study employed secondary data gathered from published annual reports of eight years (four years pre-IFRS, historical value measurement and four years post-IFRS fair value measurement) 2008 to 2015. The study was anchored on the agency theory while descriptive analysis was employed to summarize data collected while SPSS Version 23 software and regression analysis were used to analyze data. The result supports the hypothesis that fair value reporting does not significantly affect reported profitability. Fair value was however found to affect firm valuation. Overall, this study suggests that the study concludes that in order to effectively evaluate financial performance and position, knowledge of fair value is not enough. Users also need to know the historical cost of the investment. Therefore, companies should adopt a hybrid form of measurement (measurements which entail both fair and historical values) in reporting their activities to reflect actual value creation.

Keywords: Fair value, financial instruments, firm value, historical cost, profitability

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Udeh, Francis and Okegbe, Theophilus, Fair Value Accounting and Reporting, and Firm Value: Evidence from Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria (August 28, 2020). Abiahu, M.-F. C., Udeh, N. F., Okegbe, T. O., & Eneh, O. M. (2020). Fair Value Accounting and Reporting, and Firm Value: Evidence from Quoted Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria. Asian Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting, 17(1), 46-53. https://doi.org/10.9734/ajeba/2020/v17i130253, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3683900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M C Abiahu , F N Udeh , M E Ogbekhilu
Modelling the correlation between shareholders dividends and corporate performance in Nigeria
Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing , volume 14 , issue 10 , p. 570 - 581 Posted: 2018
Crossref
A E Adegboyegun , E Ben-Caleb , A O Ademola , J U Madugba , D F Eluyela
Fair value accounting and corporate reporting in Nigeria: A logistics regression approach
International Journal of Financial Research , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 301 - 310 Posted: 2020
Crossref
O D Akwu
Examination of fair value measurement in determination of profitability of listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria Posted: 2014
N B Ijeoma
The impact of fair value measurement on financial instrument of firms in Nigeria
International Journal of Advancements in Research & Technology , volume 2 , issue 11 , p. 90 - 96 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
542
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,686
RANK
117,520
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies