Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption and Application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Banking Sector of Bangladesh : A Comprative Study

72 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2020

Md Shahbub Alam

Islamic University, Kushtia

Date Written: September 25, 2020

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to comparatively analyze the adoption and implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the banking sector of Bangladesh both traditional and Islamic banking. The study employs a literature-based method which is a kind of qualitative research approach. Using exploratory analysis the study identifies and compares adoption and application scenarios of IFRS in the traditional and Islamic banking sector as well as identifies major benefits and problems in the adoption and application of IFRS in both sectors. This study concludes that the adoption and application scenarios of IFRS in the banking sector are the satisfactory level and adoption of IFRS offered various benefits but a complete implementation of IFRS by Islamic banks has been proven to genuinely violate the shariah principles. Therefore a separate accounting framework for Islamic products and transactions is required. As the existence of the Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI) is still relevant and essential for the development of Islamic financial institutions. However continuous dialogue and consultation between the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI) is needed to harmonize and minimize the difference between the two frameworks. This study expected to benefits the accounting standards-setting bodies and the interested parties as input for them to make a decision whether all standards provided by IFRS are applicable for Islamic Financial Institutions(IFIs) or not.

Keywords: IFRS, Bangladesh, AAOIFI

Suggested Citation:

Alam, Md Shahbub, Adoption and Application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Banking Sector of Bangladesh : A Comprative Study (September 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3699704 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3699704
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
S E Hidayat
The application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by Islamic Financial Institutions (IFIs): Benefits and Challenges
Journal of Islamic Economics , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 122 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J O Odia , K Ogeido
IFRS Adoption: Issues, Challenges and Lessons for Nigeria and other Adopters
Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 389 - 399 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Z Shafii , N Zakaria
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and International Accounting Standards in Islamic Financial Institutions from the Practitioners' Viewpoint
Middle-East Journal of Scientific Research , volume 13 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R K Gupta
Impact on Economic Activities by Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards by Indian Companies Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,363
RANK
186,904
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Monetary Economics: Financial System & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies