Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Only Blunt Tools Left? How IFRS 9 Affects the Earnings and Capital Management of European Banks

44 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2020

Arndt-Gerrit Kund

University of Cologne - Department of Banking

Florian Neitzert

University of Cologne - Faculty of Management, Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: September 27, 2020

Abstract

Previous research establishes the discretionary nature of Loan Loss Provisions as a prominent tool for Earnings and Capital Management in banks. However, the transition from the Incurred Credit Loss model of IAS 39 to the Expected Credit Loss model of IFRS 9 has marginalized this leeway. We investigate the implications of this shift in accounting on the Earnings and Capital Management in European banks by drawing inference from the bank stress test data. Doing so generates two distinct advantages for our identification strategy: first, we have homogeneous incentives, as all banks want to apply Earnings and Capital Management in order to appear resilient in the stress test. Second, it allows us to obtain unpublished data for IFRS 9, such that we can create a panel spanning the old and the new accounting standard. The conjunction of these two attributes makes this setting predestine for investigating the true impact of the novel accounting standard. We find that the analyzed banks employ both Earnings and Capital Management. The level of impairments grows under IFRS 9, in line with the hypothesis of a more objective loan loss provisioning process. Moreover, we show that risk-sensitive capital requirements are proactively managed, whereas the opposite is true for risk-insensitive metrics. Our results are robust to different models, parametrizations, and definitions of required capital.

Keywords: Capital Management, Earnings Management, IFRS 9, Objectivity

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kund, Arndt-Gerrit and Neitzert, Florian, Only Blunt Tools Left? How IFRS 9 Affects the Earnings and Capital Management of European Banks (September 27, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3700545 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3700545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , Thomas , S
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: A Reexamination of Capital Management, Earnings Management and Signaling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , A Lozano-Vivas
The role of loan loss provisions in earnings management, capital management, and signaling: The spanish experience
Advances in International Accounting , volume 16 , p. 45 - 65 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , C Mccarthy
Use of Loan Loss Provisions for Capital, Earnings Management and Signalling by Australian Banks
Accounting & Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 357 - 379 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman
How did Financial Reporting Contribute to the Financial Crisis?
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 423 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,686
RANK
132,602
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies