Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of Interim Reporting: A Literature Review and Future Research Directions

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2020 Last revised: 6 Jan 2021

Peter Kajüter

University of Münster - Accounting Center

Arne Lessenich

Chair of International Accounting, University of Muenster

Martin Nienhaus

Ruhr University of Bochum

Florian van Gemmern

University of Münster - Accounting Center

Date Written: October 6, 2020

Abstract

This study provides the first comprehensive literature review on interim reporting based on 112 papers published between 1961 and 2020. The review focuses on both the firm-specific consequences (capital market-based and real effects) and externalities of interim reporting. We analyze three primary interim reporting characteristics: (1) frequency, (2) contents, and (3) assurance. The review allows us to summarize the existing literature, reconcile different findings, identify trends in the literature, and present avenues for future research. We observe that investors perceive interim reports to be useful. However, no clear evidence exists for strong capital market-based benefits of higher reporting frequency, such as increases in liquidity. Instead, recent evidence even points to negative externalities of diverging reporting frequencies in terms of liquidity decreases for firms reporting at a lower frequency. Higher reporting frequency seems to imply stricter monitoring, especially in the absence of other effective monitoring mechanisms. Nonetheless, it can also induce myopic decision-making. More comprehensive reports convey more information at the costs of increases in reporting lags and processing time. Surprisingly, the current literature does not find that interim assurance leads to higher interim report quality.

Keywords: interim reporting, reporting frequency, interim assurance, literature review

JEL Classification: D82, G14, G18, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kajüter, Peter and Lessenich, Arne and Nienhaus, Martin and van Gemmern, Florian, Consequences of Interim Reporting: A Literature Review and Future Research Directions (October 6, 2020). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3706255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3706255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
163 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Overfitting bias in the models assessing the predictive power of quarterly reports
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 293 - 296 Posted: 1983
Crossref
A R Abdel-Khalik , J Espejo
Expectations data and the predictive value of interim reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1978
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
M R Alford , T P Edmonds
A replication: Does audit involvement affect the quality of interim report numbers
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 255 - 264 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
802
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,041
RANK
70,778
163 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies