Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of New Lease Standards Under US GAAP and IFRS on Financial Ratios

Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 11 (1) p. 13-28, 2020

16 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2020

Umapathy Ananthanarayanan

New York Institute of Technology

Peter Harris

New York Institute of Technology

Steven Shapiro

New York Institute of Technology

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Most of the world financial market economies have adopted International Reporting Standards (IFRS) as the necessary framework for financial statements. In the United States, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) is still required, but the adoption of IFRS has the support of many accounting firms and professional organizations and is under consideration by the SEC. The revised lease guidelines under GAAP and IFRS shows a similar effect on the financial ratios and eliminate off-balance sheet financing. This case study illustrates the differences in the treatment of leases and the impact of these differences on financial statements and selected financial ratios after the year 2019. In a given situation, students use GAAP financial statements and prepare an IFRS based balance sheet, cash flow statement, and income statement. It is necessary to understand both the revised GAAP and IFRS rules regarding leases to address our case study. Our case study is designed to be used at undergraduate and graduate levels and courses like Intermediate Accounting, Accounting Theory, Analysis of Financial Statements. The instructor/s can offer our case study as an individual case study or as a group project.

Keywords: US GAAP, IFRS, Right-of-use Asset, Capital Lease, Operating Lease, Financial Ratios

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ananthanarayanan, Umapathy and Harris, Peter and Shapiro, Steven, The Impact of New Lease Standards Under US GAAP and IFRS on Financial Ratios (2020). Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 11 (1) p. 13-28, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3707692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
ASC 842 Review Posted: 2018-11-22
Crossref
Fasb
FASB Organization. Retrieved from FASB-Accounting Standards Updates Posted: 2018-01
Crossref
FASB Accounting Standards Update Posted: 2016
Crossref
Retrieved from IAS Plus
IAS plus 2016 Posted: 2016-11-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,495
RANK
143,068
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies