Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moving toward the Expected Credit Loss Model under IFRS 9: Capital Transitional Arrangement and Bank Systematic Risk

Accepted for publication in Accounting and Business Research

Posted: 26 Oct 2020 Last revised: 7 Jun 2021

Minyue Dong

University of Lausanne - Faculty of Business and Economics (HEC Lausanne)

Romain Oberson

IESEG School of Management

Date Written: September 15, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines banks’ option to adopt the capital transitional arrangement (CTA) set out by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, in response to the introduction of the International Financial Reporting Standard 9 (IFRS 9), which requires the use of an expected credit loss model instead of an incurred loss model to estimate the impairment of financial assets. Using a sample of publicly listed European banks from 2016 to 2019, we find that bank CTA adoption choice is associated with neutral factors captured by bank-specific fundamental characteristics, and potential opportunistic factors related to regulatory constraints implied by the application of IFRS 9. We further find that banks that adopted the CTA (CTA adopters) decrease their exposure to systematic risk during the transitional period. However, this relationship is only significant in countries with powerful banking authorities. In those with less powerful banking authorities, CTA adopters tend to exercise more aggressively their accounting discretion. Our study is the first to address banks’ voluntary choice to adopt the CTA policy under the mandatory application of IFRS 9.

Keywords: Systematic Risk, Regulatory Capital, IFRS 9, Expected Credit Loss, Banks

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Minyue and Oberson, Romain, Moving toward the Expected Credit Loss Model under IFRS 9: Capital Transitional Arrangement and Bank Systematic Risk (September 15, 2020). Accepted for publication in Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3708441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3708441
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,315
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies