Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regional Political Promotion and Aggregate Accounting Profitability

53 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2021

Yue Hu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Shanghai National Accounting Institute; Shanghai National Accounting Institute

Philip Joos

Tilburg University; TIAS School for Business and Society

Date Written: October 29, 2020

Abstract

We examine the association between regional political promotions and accounting profitability of local listed firms in China. We collect the turnover outcome of outgoing mayors in prefectures from 2008 to 2017 and match their turnover outcomes (promotion, semi-retirement, layoff, transfer) with accounting profitability of local listed firms. We find that only in economically less-developed prefectures, political promotion is associated with accounting profitability. In addition, provinces prefer to promote younger mayors and the promotion decisions are made shortly after mayors start their office terms. Provinces are also inclined to promote mayors to other prefectures within the same province, if local listed firms have strong accounting performance; otherwise, they promote mayors locally. These findings suggest that regional political promotion policies serve a dual role in the interaction between firms and politicians: politicians who support the regional economy by stimulating local firms’ profitability are rewarded with promotions, but this happens through non-local promotions to severe the ties between the outgoing mayor and the local firms to minimize corruption risk. Our findings demonstrate that prior studies overstate the power of future political promotion in incentivizing regional politicians to intervene in the accounting performance of local listed firms

Keywords: Political turnover, China, firm performance, incentive

JEL Classification: M41,M48

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Yue and Joos, Philip, Regional Political Promotion and Aggregate Accounting Profitability (October 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3711144 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3711144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
650
RANK
805,836
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies