Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CAFR 1999-2019, Past Two Decades and Looking Ahead

38 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2020

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Gang Hu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Danlei Bonnie Yu

Soochow University

Date Written: October 31, 2020

Abstract

China Accounting and Finance Review (CAFR) was co-established by the Hong Kong Polytechnic University and Tsinghua University in 1999. During the past 20 years, CAFR has been publishing original papers in accounting and finance with a focus on China-related studies. In this article, we review publishing patterns and impactful articles published in CAFR for the past 20 years with the purpose of gaining knowledge of recent publication patterns and trends as well as inspiring new insights for future publications. We classify CAFR articles into six groups: (i) information disclosure; (ii) auditing and taxation; (iii) corporate governance; (iv) market efficiency; (v) corporate finance; and (vi) miscellaneous topics, and broadly review the past publications by the classification. We also summarize publications by their regions of study, research methodologies and author affiliations. Then we choose several impactful CAFR articles that have been actively cited in Chinese and English literature and highlight their contributions. Furthermore, we find that four out of five China studies published in JFS exclusively focus on China’s banking industry, while none of the past CAFR publications have studied this topic. We therefore call for more studies on China’s financial stability and banking system. Finally, we call for more high-quality papers in accounting and finance studies for all countries or regions outside of China.

Keywords: Information Disclosure, Auditing and Taxation, Corporate Governance, Market Efficiency, Corporate Finance

Suggested Citation:

Cheng, Agnes and Hu, Gang and Yu, Danlei Bonnie, CAFR 1999-2019, Past Two Decades and Looking Ahead (October 31, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3722390 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3722390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Ray Ball , Philip Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of accounting research , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Andrew C Call , Yen H Shuping Chen , Tong
Are analysts' cash flow forecasts naïve extensions of their own earnings forecasts?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 438 - 465 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Qiang Cao
Auditor Group, Inter-group Interaction, and Financial Statement Comparability: Evidence from Audit Firm Mergers in China
China Accounting and Finance Review , volume 18 , issue 3 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Jennifer N Carpenter , Robert F Whitelaw
The development of China's stock market and stakes for the global economy
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 233 - 257 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,319
RANK
658,539
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies