Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Stricter Disclosure Regulation of Private Meetings between Management and Investors Improve the Information Environment?

50 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2020 Last revised: 22 Aug 2025

Robert M. Bowen

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Shantanu Dutta

University of Ottawa - Telfer School of Management

Songlian Tang

CUNY Baruch College; East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST)

Pengcheng Zhu

University of San Diego - School of Business Administration

Date Written: August 04, 2025

Abstract

Private meetings between management and investors occur worldwide despite laws (such as Regulation Fair Disclosure in the U.S.) that prohibit sharing material private information. Some academics and practitioners have recommended that the existence, timing, and content of these private meetings be disclosed -- presumably because it would improve the information environment and level the playing field among investors.

The Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE) in China is unique worldwide in requiring disclosure of the details of private meetings between firm managers and outside investors. We investigate whether the SZSE’s increased disclosure requirements in July 2012 benefited or harmed the information environment. We use a difference-in-differences design (where possible) and a dataset that includes unaffected Shanghai Stock Exchange (SHSE) firms as a control group. Despite allegedly ‘improved’ disclosures, we find that the SZSE’s information environment degraded relative to pre-July 2012 and relative to SHSE firms – stock price volatility increased and information efficiency declined. After July 2012, private meetings became quasi-public, and disclosures became more positive and less informative. Mutual fund participation in private meetings increased – especially for funds with little or no ownership in the host firm. Increased participation by these less informed institutional investors is one explanation for observed higher stock volatility and lower information efficiency around these meetings.

Keywords: disclosure regulation, private meetings, site visits, mutual funds, stock volatility, information efficiency, information environment

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G18, G28, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bowen, Robert M. and Dutta, Shantanu and Tang, Songlian and Tang, Songlian and Zhu, Pengcheng, Does Stricter Disclosure Regulation of Private Meetings between Management and Investors Improve the Information Environment? (August 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3723824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3723824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A Ali , M T Durney , J Fisch , H Kyung
Managers' private communications with analysts: The effect of SEC v
Siebel Systems, Inc. Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 1641 - 1670 Posted: 2023
K D Allee , B J Bushee , T J Kleppe , A T Pierce
Did the Siebel Systems case limit the SEC's ability to enforce Regulation Fair Disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 1235 - 1291 Posted: 2022
M Bengtzen
Private investor meetings in public firms: The case for increasing transparency
Fordham Journal of Corporate and Financial Law , volume 22 , p. 33 - 132 Posted: 2017
A A Bonaimé
Mandatory disclosure and firm behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 4 , p. 1333 - 1362 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,594
RANK
302,340
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies