Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Institutional Investors, Legal Origin, and Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emissions Disclosure

Journal of Business Ethics

55 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2020 Last revised: 10 Mar 2023

Simon Döring

University of Hamburg

Wolfgang Drobetz

University of Hamburg

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Henning Schröder

Leuphana University Lüneburg; Hamburg Financial Research Center

Date Written: November 5, 2020

Abstract

The disclosure of corporate environmental performance is an increasingly important element of a firm’s ethical behavior. We analyze how the legal origin of foreign institutional investors affects a firm’s voluntary carbon disclosure. Using a large sample of firms from 36 countries, we show that foreign institutional ownership from civil law countries improves the scope and quality of a firm’s greenhouse gas emissions reporting. This relation is robust to addressing endogeneity and selection biases. The effect is more pronounced in firms from non-climate-sensitized countries, for which the gap between firms’ environmental standards and investors’ environmental targets is potentially larg-er, and in less international firms. Firms with a higher level of voluntary carbon disclosure also exhibit higher valuations.

Keywords: Institutional investors, foreign ownership, legal origin, corporate environmental responsi-bility, carbon disclosure, firm value

Suggested Citation:

Döring, Simon and Drobetz, Wolfgang and El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Schröder, Henning, Foreign Institutional Investors, Legal Origin, and Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emissions Disclosure (November 5, 2020). Journal of Business Ethics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3725355 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3725355
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
R Aguilera , D Rupp , C Williams , I Ganapathi
Putting the S back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of special change in organizations , volume 32 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
727
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,042
RANK
80,612
12 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies