Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Role of Internationalization of Firm-Level Corporate Governance – The Case of Audit Committees

IFN Working Paper No. 1370

22 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2020 Last revised: 6 Dec 2022

Haroon Afzali

Hanken School of Economics

Minna Martikainen

University of Vaasa; Hanken School of Economics

Lars Oxelheim

Research Institute of Industrial Economics (IFN); University of Agder; Lund University

Trond Randoy

University of Agder - University of Agder, School of Busines and Law, Students; Copenhagen Business School

Date Written: November 24, 2020

Abstract

Motivated by agency theory and arguments from linguistic studies, we argue in this paper the internationalization of a firm’s audit committee to be associated with weaker firm-level corporate governance. Based on 2,015 publicly traded European firms from 16 countries over 2000-2018, we find the presence of foreign directors on audit committees to have a significant negative impact on financial reporting quality (FRQ). The effect is found to be weaker in countries with strong investor protection. We find linguistic differences within audit committees an important explanation for the negative influence of foreign directors on FRQ. The results are robust to alternative FRQ measures and model specifications, including difference-in-differences and propensity score matching. While foreign directors on a corporate board may create value for the firm by boosting the advisory capacity of that board, recruiting a foreign director to that firm’s audit committee may compromise the board’s monitoring function and the firm’s FRQ.

Keywords: Reporting Quality, Foreign Directors, Audit Committee, Investor Protection

JEL Classification: F23, G34, K22, M16, M42

Suggested Citation:

Afzali, Haroon and Martikainen, Minna and Oxelheim, Lars and Randoy, Trond, On the Role of Internationalization of Firm-Level Corporate Governance – The Case of Audit Committees (November 24, 2020). IFN Working Paper No. 1370, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3736849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
A Abadie , G W Imbens
Large sample properties of matching estimators for average treatment effects
Econometrica , volume 74 , issue 1 , p. 235 - 267 Posted: 2006
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
E I Altman
Corporate financial distress and bankruptcy Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
912
RANK
692,613
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies