Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insights from Company Experts in Valuing Complex Estimates

57 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2021 Last revised: 13 Jul 2021

Aasmund Eilifsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Kyrre Kjellevold

University of South-Eastern Norway USN School of Business; Norwegian School of Economics (NHH), Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: June 30, 2021

Abstract

This study examines how company experts and their interactions with management and the auditor affect the fair value measurement (FVM) process. We conduct detailed interviews with 19 Norwegian company experts who possess expertise in financial instruments, investment property, oil & gas reserves, and shipping and 8 audit partners with extensive valuation experience to investigate theoretical predictions derived from agency theory and the monitoring role of company experts. Overall, the results support our predictions. Company experts: (1) have incentives to build and maintain their reputation, (2) face management pressure, and management uses several tactics (i.e., reappointment and multiple company experts) to influence their FVM, (3) are aware that providing multiple services (e.g., brokerage and trading) can affect their FVM but believe that there are adequate safeguards in place, and (4) differ by type of expert in allowing auditor access to their models and data. We also find variation by type of company experts' interaction with the audit team and their perceptions of the audit teams’ narrow focus on individual model assumptions. These findings inform researchers, regulators, and practitioners about the role company experts play in the FVM process.

Keywords: fair value measurements, auditors, company experts, management pressure

JEL Classification: G10, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Eilifsen, Aasmund and Kjellevold, Kyrre and Messier Jr, William F., Insights from Company Experts in Valuing Complex Estimates (June 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3756967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3756967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
R Adland , S Koekebakker
Ship valuation using cross-sectional sales data: A multivariate non-parametric approach
Maritime Economics & Logistics , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 105 - 118 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K D Allee , D Erickson , A Esplin , T L Yohn
The characteristics, valuation methods, and information use of valuation specialists
Accounting Horizons , volume 34 , issue 3 Posted: 2020
Crossref
D Anantharaman
The role of experts in financial reporting: Evidence from pension accounting
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 1261 - 306 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Antle
The auditor as an economic agent
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 503 - 530 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,151
RANK
401,129
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies