Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Cash Holdings in Emerging Markets

Diaw, A. (2020). Corporate cash holdings in emerging markets. Borsa Istanbul Review.

10 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2021

Alassane Diaw

Jouf University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This paper contributes to studies on corporate liquidity management. It explores the determinants of cash holdings of firms in emerging countries using panel data models. The results indicate that highly liquid firms in emerging countries show one or more of the following characteristics. They have larger size, lower capital expenditure, R&D, net working capital, leverage, and intangible assets. In addition, there is an inverse relationship between growth opportunities and cash holdings, suggesting the presence of a moral hazard problem. Moreover, using the system Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) estimator for dynamic panel data shows that the adjustment speed to the cash target level is not fast. The model also shows the impact of the dependent variable past realizations on corporate cash holdings.

Keywords: Cash Holdings, Emerging Markets, Intangibles, Target Cash Level, System GMM

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32

Suggested Citation:

Diaw, Alassane, Corporate Cash Holdings in Emerging Markets (2020). Diaw, A. (2020). Corporate cash holdings in emerging markets. Borsa Istanbul Review., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3758527
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Alvarez , A Sagner , C Valdivia
Liquidity crises and corporate cash holdings in Chile
The Developing Economies , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 378 - 392 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T W Bates , K M Kahle , R M Stulz
Why do US firms hold so much more cash than they used to?
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 5 Posted: 2009
Crossref
C F Baum , M Caglayan , O Talavera
The effects of future capital investment and R & D expenditures on firms' liquidity
Review of International Economics , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 459 - 474 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Bigelli , J Vidal
Cash holdings in private firms
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 26 - 35 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
872
RANK
584,242
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies