Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loan Loss Provision Models in Brazilian Banks

Meditari Accountancy Research, 2021

27 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 27 Jan 2022

Fernando Caio Galdi

Fundacao Instituto Capixaba de Pesquisas em Contabilidade, Economia e Financas (FUCAPE)

André Aroldo Freitas De Moura

FGV - EAESP

Robson Franca

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 27, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – This paper investigates which loan loss provision (LLP) model [International Accounting Standards39 (IAS39) based on incurred losses and Brazilian Central Bank Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) based on a mixed model] presents higher quality in terms of predictability, and which model is less susceptible to earnings management practices using LLP.

Design/methodology/approach – To test the difference between the explanatory power of the mixed model and incurred loss model in explaining the LLP, this paper runs a two-stage fixed-effect panel regression model to evaluate the association between LLP of each model and variables representatives of nondiscretionary aspects related to the quality of the loan portfolio, business cycles and qualitative evidence indicated in each GAAP. Then, this paper tests the relationship between the errors generated in each regression and the discretion of bank managers and banks’ characteristics.

Findings – This paper finds that the mixed model results in higher R2 demonstrating that the number produced under this regime is more related to observable variables than the number produced under the incurred losses model. Further, this paper finds no evidence that there is a difference in earnings management between the two standards and this paper does not find that banks manage earnings through regulatory capital. Nevertheless, this paper finds that earnings management is higher in private than in listed banks.

Originality/value – This paper takes advantage of the unique feature of the Brazilian Central Bank regulation to investigate the impact of two different accounting standards on LLP in a perfect setting.

Keywords: Impairment, Expected losses, Incurred losses, Loan loss provision

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Galdi, Fernando Caio and De Moura, André Aroldo Freitas and Franca, Robson, Loan Loss Provision Models in Brazilian Banks (January 27, 2021). Meditari Accountancy Research, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3774325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
M Alessi , S Di Colli , J S Lopez
Loan loss provisioning and relationship banking in Italy: Practices and empirical evidence
Journal of entrepreneurial and organizational diversity , issue 1 , p. 111 - 129 Posted: 2014
A Beatty , S Liao
Financial accounting in the banking industry: A review of the empirical literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 339 - 383 Posted: 2014
W H Beaver , E E Engel
Discretionary behavior with respect to allowances for loan losses and the behavior of security prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 177 - 206 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
623
RANK
538,270
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies