Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do IFRS Disclosure Requirements Reduce the Cost of Capital? Evidence from Australia

Accounting & Finance, https://doi.org/10.1111/acfi.12744

43 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2021 Last revised: 20 Jul 2021

Amitav Saha

School of Business, The University of Notre Dame Australia

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Date Written: February 13, 2021

Abstract

We examine the association between the disclosure requirements of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the cost of capital for a sample of Australian firms. We find that these disclosure requirements have a negative association with the cost of capital. The interpretation is that firms with a higher level of IFRS disclosure have a lower cost of capital. Further analysis shows that IFRS disclosure requirements are negatively related to the cost of debt and equity capital. Our findings contribute to the debate on the relative costs and benefits of IFRS disclosure requirements and have important implications for standard setters, regulators, and users of financial statements.

Keywords: IFRS; Disclosure; Weighted average cost of capital; Cost of equity; Cost of debt; Australia

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Saha, Amitav and Bose, Sudipta, Do IFRS Disclosure Requirements Reduce the Cost of Capital? Evidence from Australia (February 13, 2021). Accounting & Finance, https://doi.org/10.1111/acfi.12744, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
C Abad , E Barone , B M Gullkvist , N Hellman , A Marques , J Marton , S Mason , R L M Silva , A Morais , S Moya Gutierrez
On the 'Disclosure Initiative-Principles of Disclosure': The EAA Financial Reporting Standards Committee's View , volume 17 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2020
Crossref
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
Crossref
T C Artiach , P M Clarkson
Disclosure, conservatism and the cost of equity capital: A review of the foundation literature
Accounting & Finance , volume 51 , p. 2 - 49 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,008
RANK
336,300
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies