Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Demotion in Disguise? The Real Effects of Relocating Pension Smoothing From Operating Income to Non-operating Income

58 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2021 Last revised: 4 Jul 2023

Divya Anantharaman

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Elizabeth Chuk

University of California, Irvine

Saipriya Kamath

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 2, 2023

Abstract

Although operating income is a pervasively used performance metric, the FASB has never defined operating income. ASU 2017-07 moves toward defining operating income for the first time in the FASB’s history by specifying the inclusion and exclusion of certain income components in operating income. We examine the real effects of a mandated relocation of the income-smoothing mechanisms for defined benefit pensions from “above the line” to “below the line” of operating income. For over 30 years, the income-smoothing mechanisms from SFAS 87 (1985) have created financial reporting incentives for employers to invest in higher-risk pension assets. Consistent with ASU 2017-07 reducing the financial reporting incentives for risk-taking, we predict and find that a sample of US firms subject to this mandate reduces investment in riskier pension assets following the change, relative to a control sample of Canadian firms not subject to the change. In cross-sectional tests, we find that the reduction in risk-taking is more pronounced in (1) firms where the financial reporting benefits to risk-taking were stronger in the pre-period, and (2) firms where the regulatory change particularly reduced those financial reporting benefits. Our findings provide the first direct evidence that smoothing induces US pension sponsors to tilt toward riskier pension investments; they also indicate that financial statement presentation has real economic consequences.

Keywords: Accounting regulation, standard-setting, defined benefit pension, operating income, Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-07

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Anantharaman, Divya and Chuk, Elizabeth and Kamath, Saipriya, A Demotion in Disguise? The Real Effects of Relocating Pension Smoothing From Operating Income to Non-operating Income (July 2, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3789464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3789464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
E Amir , S Benartzi
The expected rate of return on pension funds and asset allocation as predictors of portfolio performance
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 3 , p. 335 - 352 Posted: 1998
E Amir , S Benartzi
Accounting recognition and the determinants of pension plan asset allocation
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 321 - 343 Posted: 1999
D Anantharaman , E Chuk
The economic consequences of accounting standards: Evidence from risk-taking in pension plans
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 23 - 51 Posted: 2018
D Anantharaman , Y G Lee
Managerial risk-taking incentives and corporate pension policy
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 111 , issue 2 , p. 328 - 351 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,147
RANK
373,668
1 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies