Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Grouping of Major Changes in Conceptual Framework of Financial Reporting and Analysis of New Challenges

Shkulipa L. Grouping of major changes in Conceptual Framework of financial reporting and analysis of new challenges. Studia Universitatis Vasile Goldiș Arad, Seria Științe Economice. 2021. 31(2). Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Mar 2021 Last revised: 10 Jan 2022

Lyudmyla Shkulipa

International European University; NAAS of Ukraine

Date Written: April 4, 2021

Abstract

This article aims to research the major changes in the Conceptual Framework of Financial Reporting by analyzing the consequences of these changes in a consistent understanding by standard-setters and practitioners. According to the research goal, the following objectives have been set: 1) to investigate the major changes in the Conceptual Framework of Financial Reporting; 2) to find out the new gaps in the current Conceptual Framework; 3) to group the changes into four categories, such as “Priority”, “Filling gaps”, “Updating” and “Clarifying”; 3) to analyze the current difficulties and consequences of these changes for a consistent understanding between standard-setters and practitioners. The research methods based on the quantitative collection of internal secondary and primary data, interpretivism research philosophy, inductive research approach with elements of descriptive quantitative analysis are considered as important contributions to the research methodology of the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting investigation. As a result, a comparative analysis of the financial reporting concepts was made from July 1989, September 2010, and March 2018; the comparative table was constructed. The implications of results are two-fold. On the one hand, the revised Conceptual Framework is a more comprehensive set of concepts that enhance the understanding between practitioners and standard-setters. On the other hand, it consists of the new gaps most of them in the “Updating” category of changes. It is concluded that this innovation complicates the reporting process for practitioners because it requires to use of additional judgments in practice. Besides, the investigation shows some IFRS are not justified within only the Conceptual Framework that might be the subject for further research.

Keywords: Conceptual Framework; IFRS; IASB; GAAP; FASB

JEL Classification: M40; M39

Suggested Citation:

Shkulipa, Lyudmyla, Grouping of Major Changes in Conceptual Framework of Financial Reporting and Analysis of New Challenges (April 4, 2021). Shkulipa L. Grouping of major changes in Conceptual Framework of financial reporting and analysis of new challenges. Studia Universitatis Vasile Goldiș Arad, Seria Științe Economice. 2021. 31(2). Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3797649
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
498
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies