Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Intangible Assets: An Analysis of IFRS and Non-IFRS Based Accounting Standards

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIX, No. 1, January 2020, pp. 53-62

Posted: 25 Mar 2021

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

M. L. Ashok

University of Mysore

Divyashree M. S.

Government First Grade College

Date Written: March 4, 2019

Abstract

Intangible Assets are the most important category of assets which help the organization in creating a competitive edge over others. Across the globe, there are several accounting standards, and the treatment of intangible assets varies from one another, and this in turn leads to diversity in the manner intangible assets are reported and disclosed. Due to this diversity, it is highly impossible to carry out cross-country comparison of intangible assets related information. The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) made an effort to remove such diversity and bring uniformity in reporting and disclosure of intangible assets-related information. The present paper focuses on analyzing accounting of intangible assets in the Indian context. For the purpose of the study, data was collected from the secondary sources such as annual reports of 10 selected companies and accounting standards published by MCA. For analyzing the collected data, content analysis, reliability test, disclosure index and one sample t-test were used and the study found that all the selected companies were complying with IFRS-based accounting standards in relation to intangible assets in a significant manner.

Suggested Citation:

N, Abhishek and Ashok, M. L. and M. S., Divyashree, Accounting for Intangible Assets: An Analysis of IFRS and Non-IFRS Based Accounting Standards (March 4, 2019). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XIX, No. 1, January 2020, pp. 53-62, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3797477
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
450
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies