Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for R&D on the Income Statement? Evidence on Non-Discretionary vs. Discretionary R&D Capitalization Under IFRS in Germany

55 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Date Written: March 5, 2021

Abstract

This paper compares the informativeness of discretionary research and development (R&D) capitalization under IAS 38 with non-discretionary “as-if” R&D capitalization. While prior research has consistently demonstrated capital market benefits of “as-if” capitalization, prior evidence for reported R&D capitalization has been less favorable due to earnings management concerns. Since “as-if” studies are based on adjusted data assuming R&D capitalization, the resulting numbers are free from such concerns and may hence be more informative. We find that reported capitalized R&D is not associated with lower information asymmetry but positively associated with forecast errors. Consistently, while market values are not associated with reported capitalized R&D, they are strongly associated with “as-if” capitalized R&D. Also, actual capitalization of development expenditures under IAS 38 is only as value relevant as expensing all R&D. Our results are consistent with the notion that market participants undo actual capitalization and use the information on expensed R&D to develop their own estimates of R&D value. Our findings lend support to the proposition by Barker and Penman (2020) that deficiencies of the balance sheet that result from the uncertainty inherent in expenditures such as R&D, should be supplemented by more detailed information on the nature of the related expenses in the income statement.

Keywords: Accruals; capitalization; information environment; research and development

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Dinh, Tami and Schultze, Wolfgang, Accounting for R&D on the Income Statement? Evidence on Non-Discretionary vs. Discretionary R&D Capitalization Under IFRS in Germany (March 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3798624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3798624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
L Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
T Abrahams , B K Sidhu
The role of R&D capitalisations in firm valuation and performance measurement
Australian Journal of Management , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 183 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K Ahmed , H Falk
The value relevance of management's research and development reporting choice: Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 264 Posted: 2006
Crossref
E Amir , Y Guan , G Livne
The association of R&D and capital expenditures with subsequent earnings variability
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 222 - 246 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,137
RANK
475,660
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies