Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use and Abuse of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: An Exploratory Study of Indian Companies

IIM Bangalore Research Paper No. 637

16 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021

R. Narayanaswamy

Indian Institute of Management (IIMB), Bangalore

Date Written: March 19, 2021

Abstract

Indian companies use non-GAAP financial measures in addition to GAAP measures. Unlike GAAP measures, non-GAAP measures are not defined well. This creates conditions for managers to use these measures opportunistically to distort performance reporting and analysis. A relatively weak legal system and the absence of shareholder litigation in India make the abuse of these measures more likely than in developed countries. This study provides preliminary evidence based on annual reports for 187 firm-years for 54 firms about the use of non-GAAP measures in India. The evidence includes archival and anecdotal data. The evidence indicates that managers often use such measures opportunistically when faced with decline in sales or profit growth.

Keywords: non-GAAP earnings, reporting consistency, earnings comparability

JEL Classification: G14, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Narayanaswamy, Ramaswami, The Use and Abuse of Non-GAAP Financial Measures: An Exploratory Study of Indian Companies (March 19, 2021). IIM Bangalore Research Paper No. 637, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3807818 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3807818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Regulatory Guide 230, Disclosing non-IFRS financial information
The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) Posted: 2011-12
N Bhattacharya , E Black , T Christensen , C Larson
Assessing the relative informativeness and permanence of pro forma earnings and GAAP operating earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 285 - 319 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D E Black , T E Christensen , J T Ciesielski , B C Whipple
Non-GAAP Earnings: A Consistency and Comparability Crisis? Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2021
Crossref
M Bradshaw , R Sloan
GAAP versus the street: An empirical assessment of two alternative definitions of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 41 - 66 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Edoardo Nesi
Non-GAAP Disclosure
, p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
RANK
434,536
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indian Institute of Management Bangalore Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies