Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Overload? An Empirical Analysis of International Financial Reporting Standards Disclosure Requirements

Saha, A., R.D. Morris and H. Kang (2019), ‘Disclosure Overload? An Empirical Analysis of International Financial Reporting Standards Disclosure Requirements’, ABACUS, Vol. 43, No. 1, pp. 205 – 236. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/abac.12148

50 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2021

Amitav Saha

School of Business, The University of Notre Dame Australia

Richard Donald Morris

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Helen Kang

UNSW Sydney

Date Written: March 21, 2019

Abstract

Despite the positive effects of the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) noted in the literature, standard setters have issued reports suggesting that the required disclosures in IFRS have become too burdensome and should be reduced. We examine this disclosure overload problem by testing whether the disclosure reduction recommendations of the Excess Baggage Report issued by professional accounting bodies from Scotland and New Zealand in 2011 are associated with companies’ disclosure incentives and are value relevant for a sample of 196 Australian listed companies. The Excess Baggage Report classifies current IFRS disclosure requirement items into three categories: Retain; Delete; and Disclose if Material. We find that Retain items are disclosed the most, followed by those classified as Disclose if Material, and then by Delete items. Only Retain items are significantly associated with companies’ disclosure incentives. We also find that these disclosure categories are value relevant, especially for below-median profitability firms. Our findings may provide input to the IASB’s ongoing Disclosure Initiatives project.

Keywords: Disclosure Incentives; Disclosure Overload; IFRS Disclosure Requirements; Value Relevance

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Saha, Amitav and Morris, Richard Donald and Kang, Helen Hyon Ju, Disclosure Overload? An Empirical Analysis of International Financial Reporting Standards Disclosure Requirements (March 21, 2019). Saha, A., R.D. Morris and H. Kang (2019), ‘Disclosure Overload? An Empirical Analysis of International Financial Reporting Standards Disclosure Requirements’, ABACUS, Vol. 43, No. 1, pp. 205 – 236. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/abac.12148, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3813580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3813580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A H Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards affect Accounting Quality?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
Rethinking the Path from an Objective of Economic Decision Making to a Disclosure and Presentation Framework
Australian Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2013
To Disclose or Not to Disclose: Materiality is the Question', AASB Staff Paper Posted: 2014-12
AASB improves ability for companies to address disclosure overload in financial statements [Media release Posted: 2015-02-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
RANK
306,268
5 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies