Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Fair Value Levels: Time Trends under IFRS and U.S. GAAP

38 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2021

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Ahmad Hammami

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Zhongwei Huang

Fudan University - School of Management

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Michel Magnan

Concordia University - Department of Accountancy

Rucsandra Moldovan

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Date Written: January 2, 2021

Abstract

The IASB’s post-implementation review of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement motivates our analysis of the evolution of the value relevance of fair value (FV) levels over time on banks that report under IFRS and U.S. GAAP. For both sets of standards, results provide evidence that is consistent with (1) an increase in value relevance across all three FV levels over time, and (2) a convergence of the value relevance of the three FV levels over time. However, FV levels exhibit systematically higher value relevance under U.S. GAAP compared to IFRS. Such gap has closed to some extent since the enactment of IFRS 13. This evolution is likely due to learning about FV accounting and changes in financial reporting regulations that increased disclosure requirements. These findings confirm the IASB’s conclusions that FV levels’ disclosure is useful to users of financial statements, but also emphasizes preparers and investors’ learning over time.

Keywords: Fair value hierarchy; Fair value levels; Fair value measurement; IFRS 13; SFAS 157; ASC 820

Suggested Citation:

Filip, Andrei and Hammami, Ahmad and Huang, Zhongwei and Jeny, Anne and Magnan, Michel and Moldovan, Rucsandra, The Value Relevance of Fair Value Levels: Time Trends under IFRS and U.S. GAAP (January 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3815064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3815064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,522
RANK
215,325
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies