Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting Technologies and Textual Readability: Evidence from the XBRL Mandate

Information Systems Research, Forthcoming

HEC Paris Research Paper No. MOSI-2021-1422

50 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021 Last revised: 23 Apr 2021

Xitong Li

HEC Paris

Hongwei (Harry) Zhu

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: April 22, 2021

Abstract

Financial reporting technologies can significantly affect how firms construct and disseminate quantitative and qualitative disclosures. Leveraging the opportunity created by the eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) mandate in the United States, we use a difference-in-differences approach to examine whether and how a firm’s XBRL adoption affects the readability of its textual disclosures. We find that the initial adopters’ HTML-formatted annual reports become harder to read after the XBRL mandate. Further analysis reveals that this effect is concentrated among adopters with more quantitative disclosures, those with smaller firm size, and those with a higher level of financial complexity. Importantly, we show that managers’ reduced attention to preparing HTML-formatted annual reports, rather than increased disclosures, is likely the explanation for this decrease in textual readability. We also find that the negative effect on textual readability persists at least in the subsequent year. Taken together, our results suggest that although XBRL can standardize numerical disclosures, its initial adoption can divert managerial attention and result in reduced readability of textual disclosures.

Keywords: XBRL, reporting technologies, readability, limited attention, difference-in-differences

JEL Classification: M21, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Li, Xitong and Zhu, Hongwei and Zuo, Luo, Reporting Technologies and Textual Readability: Evidence from the XBRL Mandate (April 22, 2021). Information Systems Research, Forthcoming, HEC Paris Research Paper No. MOSI-2021-1422, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3819017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: Evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2008
Bai , M Nunez , J R Kalagnanam
Managing data quality risk in accounting information systems
Information Systems Research , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 453 - 473 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Wang Ballou , R Pazer , H Tayi , G K
Modeling information manufacturing systems to determine information product quality
Management Science , volume 44 , issue 4 , p. 462 - 484 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,104
RANK
162,563
7 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies