Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Quality and International Trade

62 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2021 Last revised: 27 Dec 2021

Yuqing Zhou

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: December 25, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of financial reporting quality on exports and imports. I begin by using survey data from executives to measure accounting quality and conduct country-sector-level analyses. I find that a one standard deviation increase in financial reporting quality in a country is associated with increases in manufacturing exports and imports of 3.6 percent and 4.5 percent, respectively. I then exploit a reporting regulation change in China and use administrative firm-level international trade data to conduct differences-in-differences and triple-difference analyses. These results show that treated firms export 15.3 percent more after the financial reporting reform. They also export to more countries and export more types of goods after the reform. Next, I provide evidence for potential mechanisms for these effects; specifically, improvements in financial reporting quality (i) facilitate communication among people of different cultures, (ii) decrease information asymmetry between trade partners, and (iii) help firms raise external capital. This paper extends understanding of the real economic effects of financial disclosure and provides a potential link between information transparency and global economic growth.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Quality, International Trade, Information Asymmetry

JEL Classification: G14; F65

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Yuqing, Financial Reporting Quality and International Trade (December 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3832915 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3832915
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
C Armstrong , M Barth , A Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
R Ball , R Bushman , F Vasvari
The Debt-Contracting Value of Accounting Information and Loan Syndicate Structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 247 - 288 Posted: 2008
S Banerjee , S Dasgupta , Y Kim
Buyer-supplier relationships and the stakeholder theory of capital structure
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 2507 - 2552 Posted: 2008
C Botosan , C Botosan , M Plumlee
A Re-Examination of Disclosure Level and the Expected Cost of Equity Capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 72 , p. 21 - 40 Posted: 1997
Load more
2 Citations
STEPHEN GLAESER , JAMES D. OMARTIAN
Public Firm Presence, Financial Reporting, and the Decline of U.S. Manufacturing
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 3 , p. 1085 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Lin Nan , Chao Tang
Uniform Standards, Information Quality, and Capital Flows
Forthcoming at European Accounting Review · 46 Pages · Posted: 7 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 25 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 98
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,908
RANK
183,013
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies