Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Reporting in Financial Crises: A Tale of Two Countries

International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 29 No. 2, 2021, pp. 181-216. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJAIM-03-2020-0034

Posted: 11 May 2021

Kaouthar Lajili

University of Ottawa - Faculty of Administration

Michael Dobler

Dresden University of Technology - Faculty of Economics and Business Management

Daniel Zeghal

University of Ottawa - Faculty of Administration

Mitchell J. Bryan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 11, 2021

Abstract

Purpose – This paper aims to investigate the attributes and information content of risk reporting in two different institutional and regulatory, namely, Canadian and German, settings during the period surrounding the financial crisis of 2008.

Design/methodology/approach – For a matched sample of manufacturing firms in the period 2006–2010, this study conducts a detailed content analysis of annual reports to assess and compare the volume and patterns of risk disclosures. Panel regressions are used to explore how risk disclosures related to corporate risk proxies and performance indicators.

Findings – Over the sample period, Canadian and German firms increase the volume but largely maintain the patterns of risk disclosures. Risk disclosures relate to corporate risk proxies but are not incrementally informative to assess firm performance.

Originality/value – The paper contributes to research on risk reporting by providing detailed cross-country evidence for a period particularly shaped by significant risk. The findings have implications for the regulation and usefulness of risk reporting.


Keywords: Risk management, Operational risk, Risk disclosure, Non-financial risk, Information content, Manufacturing sector

JEL Classification: G01, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lajili, Kaouthar and Dobler, Michael and Zeghal, Daniel and Bryan, Mitchell J., Risk Reporting in Financial Crises: A Tale of Two Countries (May 11, 2021). International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 29 No. 2, 2021, pp. 181-216. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJAIM-03-2020-0034, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3843531
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
444
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies