Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment in Human Capital and External Reporting Quality

52 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

Ruby Lee

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

Date Written: May 14, 2021

Abstract

Ensuring that firms devote sufficient resources to the reporting process is important for quality reporting. To explore the effects of resources invested in the reporting function, we use a regulatory intervention in South Korea that led to an increase in human capital invested in the reporting process. The new regulation required firms to file internally prepared, pre-audited financial statements before the start of the year-end field audit process. Using the staggered adoption of this regulation, we confirm that the regulation leads to an increase in internal accounting employees at firms, and that the increase in rank-and-file accounting employees is more pronounced than the increase in top executives. Using difference-in-differences tests, we find improvement in external reporting quality (i.e., fewer restatements) for treatment firms relative to similar-size control firms that were not subject to the regulation. The effects are greater when an increase in accounting employees is accompanied by an increase in external audit effort, measured using audit hours. Treatment firms also show a drop in their hiring of non-accounting employees suggesting reallocation of labor inside the firm. The findings suggest that regulatory efforts to increase investment in internal accounting employees lead to improved reporting quality but can reduce labor forces in other non-accounting functions.

Keywords: Human Capital; Financial Reporting Quality; Auditing

JEL Classification: M12, M41, M42, G14, M51, J44

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Ruby and Yu, Gwen, Investment in Human Capital and External Reporting Quality (May 14, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3846394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3846394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
423
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,906
RANK
158,103
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies