Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Relations and Media Coverage

73 Pages Posted: 25 May 2021 Last revised: 7 Nov 2022

Thomas Ruf

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Jun Song

Korea University

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Date Written: May 20, 2021

Abstract

We study the impact of political relations on media coverage. Using a sample of 3,290 American Depository Receipts (ADRs) from 45 countries, we find that poor political relations between the US and an ADR firm’s home country induce negative coverage by the US media of the ADR firm. To alleviate endogeneity, we adopt France’s and Germany’s opposition to the Iraq War and the inauguration of the US president as two shocks to bilateral political relations between the US and foreign countries. In placebo tests, we show either no negative effect of political relations on ADR firms’ press releases and non-US media coverage or such an effect not driven by firms’ US sales. We further document the three economic mechanisms underlying the impact of political relations on media coverage: US journalists’ country sentiment, a country’s popularity among US readers, and the US media’s political beliefs. Finally, we document the two consequences of negative coverage by the US media: investors respond to negative news in a short horizon but quickly adjust with a stock price reversion in a long horizon, and negative coverage leads to a higher likelihood of firms terminating their ADRs.

Keywords: Political Relations; Media Coverage; Media Slant; ADRs; Sentiment; Stock Returns

JEL Classification: G00, G30, H77

Suggested Citation:

Ruf, Thomas and Song, Jun and Zhang, Bohui, Political Relations and Media Coverage (May 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3849962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
K Ahern , D Sosyura
Who Writes the News? Corporate Press Releases during Merger Negotiations
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 241 - 291 Posted: 2014
K Ahern , D Sosyura
Rumor Has It: Sensationalism in Financial Media , volume 28 , p. 2050 - 2093 Posted: 2015
T B Andersen , T Harra , F Tarp
On US Politics and IMF Lending , volume 50 , p. 1843 - 1862 Posted: 2006
W G Bailey , A Karolyi , C Salva
The Economic Consequences of Increased Disclosure: Evidence from International Cross-Listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,627
RANK
225,977
2 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies