Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can sell-side analysts compete using public information?: Analysts as frame-makers revisited

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review.

Posted: 24 May 2021

Johan Graaf

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: May 21, 2021

Abstract

This paper extends qualitative research on sell-side analysts by investigating how analysts compete against each other in the market for investment advice. The paper challenges the assumption that analysts must utilize private information in such competition, and investigates the role of a public setting – the quarterly earnings presentations – for analysts’ analytical work and client communication. The paper draws on an in-depth field study, comprising observations and interviews, and theorizes analysts as frame-makers when analyzing the materials. The study reveals how accounting reports place assumptions within the valuation practices of the share into question and thus risk ‘overflowing’ established calculative frames. The paper reports on how the analysts utilized such uncertainty to enhance their dialogues with both clients and managers and it shows how reacting to public information served a central role for analysts’ competition; perhaps even more so than proactively developing investment cases and acquiring private information. These findings are discussed against recent developments of the sell-side industry’s remuneration models, and it is argued that experience has become an increasingly valuable quality. The paper also contributes to the perspective of analysts as frame-makers by shifting attention to overflows, and how calculative frames develop through so-called ‘cold’ negotiations.

Keywords: Sell-side analysts, Earnings presentations, Accounting reports, Calculative frames

Suggested Citation:

Graaf, Johan, Can sell-side analysts compete using public information?: Analysts as frame-makers revisited (May 21, 2021). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850565
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
258
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies