Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridging Competing Logics: Re-Reading the History of Transnational Standardization in Accounting

55 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2021

Masatsugu Sanada

Kyoto Tachibana University

Date Written: June 10, 2021

Abstract

This study seeks to contribute to the understanding of changes in institutional logics by re-reading the history of transnational standardization in accounting. It builds on a comprehensive review of official documents of the International Accounting Standards Committee, now restructured as the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The findings indicate that, in the 40-year history of transnational accounting standards-setting, there have been several changes in institutional logics, which, in turn, have encouraged revisions in organizational structure, inter-organizational relationships, standards-setting approach, and sources of legitimacy. These changes have encouraged further revisions in institutional logics (representation and expertise), and vice versa. Especially after the global financial crisis of 2007-2008, the IASB accomplished several institutional changes as a response to internal and external pressures. At the same time, a new organization-level institutional logic has emerged from the process of institutional bricolage, wherein institutional actors (trustees) have picked the best elements of competing logics, thereby bridging the two

Keywords: Institutional logics, Bricolage, Legitimacy, Accountability, IASB

Suggested Citation:

Sanada, Masatsugu, Bridging Competing Logics: Re-Reading the History of Transnational Standardization in Accounting (June 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3860537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3860537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
117 References
Iasc
IASC Constitution. Approved by the members of IASC on Posted: 1992-10-11
Iasc
A discussion paper issued for comment by the Steering Committee on financial instruments: Accounting for financial assets and financial liabilities Posted: 1997
Iasc
Shaping IASC for the future: A discussion paper issued for comment by the Strategy Working Party of the International Accounting Standards Committee (comments to be submitted by Posted: 1998-04-30
Iasc
Recommendations on shaping IASC for the future: A report of the International Accounting Standards Committee's Strategy Working Party (recommendations to the IASC board) Posted: 1999-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
598
RANK
753,736
117 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies