Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is greater connectivity of financial and non-financial information in annual reports valued by market participants?

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2021 Last revised: 30 May 2024

Ruizhe Wang

The University of Sydney

Chua Wai Fong

University of Sydney

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: May 29, 2024

Abstract

The establishment of the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB), and the endorsement by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) foundation of the principles underlying the Integrated Reporting (IR) Framework, attest to a regulatory intent to develop a disclosure framework better connecting sustainability-related financial disclosures with financial disclosures. Strategic Reporting (SR), effective in the United Kingdom (U.K.) since 2013, is a prime example of such a framework. Utilizing proprietary data from PwC U.K., we find higher SR disclosure quality is associated with higher liquidity, lower cost of capital, and more accurate, less dispersed analysts’ forecasts. We then hypothesize and compare these impacts with the capital market effects of disclosure quality under the reporting framework preceding SR. We find that the effects of higher liquidity and lower cost of capital are more pronounced under SR, suggesting that SR, as a mandated, more connected reporting framework, enables more effective capital market communication. We also find that the incremental capital market benefits are more significant for entities with higher exposure to the change, better sustainability performance and higher organizational complexity. For regulators and standard setters, these findings indicate that their emphasis on greater connectivity of financial and non-financial information is valued by market participants.

Keywords: strategic reporting; integrated reporting; connectivity; sustainability; mandatory; the international sustainability standards board.

JEL Classification: M41; M48; M14; G10

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Ruizhe and Wai Fong, Chua and Simnett, Roger and Zhou, Shan, Is greater connectivity of financial and non-financial information in annual reports valued by market participants? (May 29, 2024). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3866003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3866003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
C A Adams , B Potter , P J Singh , J York
Exploring the implications of integrated reporting for social investment (disclosures)
The British Accounting Review , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 283 - 296 Posted: 2016
M Aluchna , M Roszkowska-Menkes , B Kamiński
From talk to action: the effects of the non-financial reporting directive on ESG performance
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 31 , issue 7 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2022
M Arif , C Gan , M Nadeem
Regulating non-financial reporting: evidence from European environmental, social and governance disclosures and earnings risk
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 523 Posted: 2022
V Athanasakou , A Boshanna , N Kochetova , G Voulgaris
Strategy and business model disclosures in annual reports: The role of legal regime
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,606
RANK
251,810
2 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies