Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Have We Really Been Using the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Since 2005? Case of Turkey

Cagle, Melissa N., Balsarı, Çağnur, & Dalkılıç, Fatih. (2015). Have we really been using the international financial reporting standards (IFRS) since 2005? Case of Turkey. International Journal of Social Sciences and Humanity Studies, 7(1), 36-46.

11 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2021

Melissa Cagle

Dokuz Eylul University

Cagnur Kaytmaz Balsari

Dokuz Eylul University

A. Fatih Dalkilic

Dokuz Eylul University Faculty of Business

Date Written: July 2, 2015

Abstract

Starting from the year 2002, the Turkish national regulatory agency has undertaken an extensive role in the convergence efforts towards IFRS. In order to support the transition, the Turkish Capital Markets Board (TCMB) implemented several versions of IFRS, regulatory practices and compliance requirements- all over the course of 15 years. The first effort undertaken in the road to IFRS transition was the issuance of Series XI, No: 25 by the TCMB. However, Series XI, No: 25 was not fully compatible with the international standard set and Series XI, No: 27 was put into effect in order to allow the companies to refer to the original IFRS when necessary. This has created three groups of reporting companies; Series XI, no: 25 users, IAS/IFRS users and mixed users of both sets. Nobes (2006) states that there is a risk that the process of translation will change or lose meaning from the original version of the standard and as these various IFRS are given legal status in various countries, this approach can potentially lead to application differences between jurisdictions. In line with this argument, the aim of the current study is to discuss impact of these differences on financial report comparability and analysis in Turkey.

Keywords: IFRS, harmonization, convergence, Turkey, Series XI, No: 25

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Cagle, Melissa and Kaytmaz Balsari, Cagnur and Dalkilic, A. Fatih, Have We Really Been Using the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Since 2005? Case of Turkey (July 2, 2015). Cagle, Melissa N., Balsarı, Çağnur, & Dalkılıç, Fatih. (2015). Have we really been using the international financial reporting standards (IFRS) since 2005? Case of Turkey. International Journal of Social Sciences and Humanity Studies, 7(1), 36-46., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3878573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
E Bengtsson
Repoliticalization of accounting standard setting.The IASB, the EU and the global financial crisis
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 22 , issue 6 , p. 567 - 580 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Young Ernst
IFRS adopted by the European Union Posted: 2015
Ü G Gençoğlu , Y Ertan
Muhasebe kalitesini etkileyen faktörler ve T ürkiye'deki durum. Muhasebe ve Finansman Dergisi , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2012
Applıcatıon Around the World Jurisdictional Profıle: European Union Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
359
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies