Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Kinked Accounting? Loss Avoidance in Europe and (Not) the US

37 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2021 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Patrick Chardonnens

University of Fribourg - University of Fribourg - Faculty of Economics and Social Science; ZHAW School of Management and Law

Martin Wallmeier

University of Fribourg - Faculty of Economics and Social Science

Date Written: February 8, 2024

Abstract

For a long time, the most vivid evidence of earnings management has been a discontinuity of earnings distributions at the threshold of profits and losses, indicating loss-avoidance behavior. In the US, this discontinuity disappeared around the time the Sarbanes-Oxley Act was implemented, suggesting that the reform had successfully pushed back earnings management. In 2006, the EU established its own set of rules for audits, public oversight of audits and investor protection in Directive 2006/43/EC, sometimes referred to as "European SOX". We analyze whether the zero earnings discontinuity in Europe has disappeared after the introduction of European SOX and find that this is not the case: In contrast to the US, the discontinuity has remained stable in Europe, and it remains more pronounced in code law countries and in cultures of high uncertainty avoidance.

Keywords: Earnings management, Zero earnings discontinuity, SOX, Loss avoidance

JEL Classification: M48, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chardonnens, Patrick and Wallmeier, Martin, Kinked Accounting? Loss Avoidance in Europe and (Not) the US (February 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3882901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3882901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
S Arping , Z Sautner
Did SOX Section 404 make firms less opaque? Evidence from cross-listed firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 1133 - 1165 Posted: 2013
V A Atanasov , B S Black
Shock-based causal inference in corporate finance and accounting research
Critical Finance Review , volume 5 , p. 207 - 304 Posted: 2016
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
715
RANK
703,106
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies