Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Earnings Announcements: Tone, Forward-looking Statements, and Informativeness

The European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2021

Elaine Henry

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

James Thewissen

Catholic University of Louvain (UCL) - Louvain Finance (LFIN)

Wouter Torsin

HEC Liège, Management School of the University of Liège

Date Written: July 17, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines two attributes of earnings press releases issued by firms cross-listed on U.S. stock exchanges: the tone and frequency of forward-looking statements. A more conservative tone and a greater proportion of forward-looking statements are often viewed as contributing to more credible disclosures. Our analysis indicates that culturally and institutionally more distant firms are generally less positive in their disclosures and include more forward-looking statements than U.S. firms. Further, we find that the tone and frequency of forward-looking statements of cross-listed firms’ earnings announcements are more informative than those of U.S. firms in predicting future firm performance, and this informativeness generally increases with the cultural and institutional distance of the home country from the U.S. In explaining market reaction to earnings announcements, tone informativeness in particular increases with the cultural distance of the home country from the U.S. Overall, in the context of home bias theory, we interpret our findings as suggesting that a cautious disclosure tone and more forward-looking information serve to mitigate potential home bias-related credibility and asymmetric information concerns arising from cultural and institutional distance.

Keywords: disclosure; tone; forward-looking; credibility; home bias; cross-listed firms

Suggested Citation:

Henry, Elaine and Thewissen, James and Torsin, Wouter, International Earnings Announcements: Tone, Forward-looking Statements, and Informativeness (July 17, 2021). The European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3889026 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3889026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Ö Arslan-Ayaydin , K Boudt , J Thewissen
Managers set the tone: equity incentives and the tone of earnings press releases
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 72 , p. 132 - 147 Posted: 2014
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
N Barberis , R Thaler
Chapter 18: A survey of behavioral finance
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 1 , p. 1053 - 1128 Posted: 2003
S Beugelsdijk , T Kostova , V Kunst , E Spadafora , M Van Essen
Cultural distance and firm internationalization: A meta-analytical review and theoretical implications
Journal of Management , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 89 - 130 Posted: 2018
Load more
4 Citations
Matthias Pöferlein
Using Negations in Analyzing German Texts in Finance
Credit and Capital Markets – Kredit und Kapital , p. 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Chuan Zhang , Yueyun Wang
Non-financial information farsightedness and capital market information efficiency
Humanities and Social Sciences Communications , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Matthias Pöferlein
Using Negations in Analyzing German Texts in Finance
Credit and Capital Markets – Kredit und Kapital , volume 56 , issue 3-4 , p. 353 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Hung Wan Kot , Lewis Tam , Xin Xu
Lexical similarity in corporate announcements and its valuation impact: Evidence from profit warnings in Hong Kong
59 Pages · Posted: 10 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 10 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
959
RANK
422,861
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies