Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges of IFRS adoption in Ethiopia: Significant Public Enterprises

Posted: 29 Aug 2021

Fetene Zeru Kase

Independent

Date Written: June 25, 2021

Abstract

There were a lot of challenges that reporting entities have encountered in International Financial Reporting Standards implementation process. These consist of engaging inappropriate individuals for the implementation, not giving adequate time and support, not conducting gap analysis and impact assessment, not identifying risks of conversion to design the mitigation strategy, not having proper action plan, lack of awareness whom to capacitate on relevant IFRS standards and International Valuation Standards, considering training alone as solution to the adoption process, lack of experience sharing with best implementer (champions in their industry), not involving internal and external auditors, considering the job as work of finance work team. Moreover considering information technology as a solution by itself, problems related to weak corporate governance and change management are the major finding as challenge for Ethiopian reporting entities.

The study was conduct on 33 government owned business enterprises and financial institutions in Ethiopia. The data used for this research purpose includes both primary and secondary data. Data were gathered through interview with IFRS implementation project team member of the reporting entities and reports produced by the follow up teams in Accounting and Auditing Board of Ethiopia and Ministry of Public Enterprises (the now called Public Enterprises Agency of Ethiopia).

Keywords: challenges, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Zeru Kase, Fetene, Challenges of IFRS adoption in Ethiopia: Significant Public Enterprises (June 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3894816
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,004
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies