Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Accounting Information in Explaining Stock Returns in Sri Lanka

International Journal of Business and Management; Vol. 12, No. 10; 2017

11 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2021

Y.M. Chithrasheeli Gunaratne

Uva Wellassa University

Niluka Anuradha

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The value relevance of accounting information is an important area in accounting researches. However the literature provides contradictory conclusions on the value relevance of accounting information in different stock exchanges and there is a very limited knowledge in this regard in Sri Lankan context. Hence this study endeavored to investigate the value relevance of accounting information in explain stock returns considering three traditional accounting performance measures: Earnings Per Share (EPS), Return on Equity (ROE) and Return on Investment (ROI) as the proxy for accounting information. The study was conducted with the hypothesis that the traditional accounting performance measures are significant in explaining stock returns in Sri Lanka. A sample of 1695 firm year observations were used for the study covering 113 companies in Colombo Stock Exchange for fifteen years period from 1999 to 2013. This study used Easton and Harris (1991) formal valuation model. Panel data regression analysis technique was applied to test the relative information content of each performance measure to identify the best performance measure which could explain the stock returns in Sri Lanka. The study revealed that the EPS and ROI are significant performance measures and the EPS is the best performance measure which could explain the significant variations of stock returns in Sri Lanka. The results suggest that the market participants in the Colombo Stock Exchange should pay more attention on EPS and ROI. Meantime they must consider other determinants to develop their investment strategies.

Suggested Citation:

Chithrasheeli Gunaratne, Y.M. and Anuradha, Niluka, Value Relevance of Accounting Information in Explaining Stock Returns in Sri Lanka (2017). International Journal of Business and Management; Vol. 12, No. 10; 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3895554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178
R Ball , S P Kothary , R L Watts
Economic Determinants of the Relation between Earnings changes and Stock Returns
The Accounting Review , issue 3 Posted: 1993
B H Bao , D H Bao
Usefulness of Value Added and Abnormal Economic Earnings: An Empirical Examination
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 25 , issue 1-2 , p. 251 - 265 Posted: 1998
B Bao , L Chow
The usefulness of earnings and book value for equity valuation in emerging capital markets: evidence from listed companies in the people's republic of China
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 85 - 104 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
503
RANK
531,414
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies