Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts’ IFRS Knowledge, Forecast Error, and Sec’S Elimination of the 20-F Reconciliation

Accounting & Taxation Vol. 13, No. 1, 2021, pp. 1-14

14 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2021

Mary Jo Brooks Hunter

Southern Illinois University

Xiaoxiao Song

Southern Illinois University Edwardsville

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Foreign private issues (FPI) with trading shares in the United States needed to reconcile their annual financial reports (20-F) to the U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) if they prepare the statements with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). However, in November 2007, the SEC eliminated the 20-F reconciliation requirement. Prior studies have investigated the consequences of removing the reconciliation from country-level as well as firm-level characteristics, and have found mixed results. In this paper, we test the effect of the elimination on analyst forecast error based on analyst individual characteristics. Specifically, we examine whether the effect varies with analysts’ knowledge of IFRS. If there is any information loss from removing the reconciliation, the negative impact would be stronger for analysts without IFRS expertise. Therefore, these analysts’ forecast error might become larger after the elimination, relative to before the elimination. We test our conjecture with a set of hand-collected data of analysts who follow foreign IFRS filers from 2005 to 2009. Results suggest that, in general, there is no significant change in terms of analysts’ forecast error before and after eliminating the reconciliation. However, for analysts who do not have knowledge of IFRS, their forecast error significantly increased in the post-elimination period, while this change is not observed in analysts with IFRS knowledge. Our results not only provide supporting evidence to prior studies and the SEC’s Final Rule (2007), but also highlight the importance of analysts’ individual characteristics on their forecast properties.

Keywords: IFRS, 20-F Reconciliation Elimination, Analyst Forecast Properties

JEL Classification: F23, F37, G28

Suggested Citation:

Hunter, Mary Jo Brooks and Song, Xiaoxiao, Analysts’ IFRS Knowledge, Forecast Error, and Sec’S Elimination of the 20-F Reconciliation (2021). Accounting & Taxation Vol. 13, No. 1, 2021, pp. 1-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3902084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
R Ball , X Li , L Shivakumar
Contractibility and Transparency of Financial Statement Information Prepared under IFRS: Evidence from Debt Contracts around IFRS Adoption
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 5 , p. 915 - 963 Posted: 2015
R R Barniv , M Myring
How Would the Differences Between IFRS and US GAAP Affect US Analyst Performance? Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 34 , p. 28 - 51 Posted: 2015
B K Behn , J H Choi , T Kang
Audit Quality and Properties of Analyst Earnings Forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2008
D Bradley , S Gokkaya , X Liu
Before an Analyst Becomes an Analyst: Does Industry Experience Matter?
The Journal of Finance , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 751 - 792 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
413
RANK
872,691
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies