Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Human Resource Investment in IT Controls over Financial Reporting and Investment Efficiency

53 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2021

Dongjoon Choi

Yonsei University - School of Business

Hansol Lee

Yonsei University - School of Business

Ho‐Young Lee

Yonsei University

Hyun-Young Park

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 4, 2021

Abstract

This study investigates the association between human resource investment in information technology (IT) controls over financial reporting and its investment efficiency. To conduct the analysis, it uses novel hand-collected data on the number of IT control personnel. In particular, it uses the ratio of (1) the number of IT control personnel, (2) the number of IT control personnel who are certified public accountants to the total number of employees in a firm, and (3) the natural logarithm of average working experience of IT control personnel in months as a proxy for human resource investment in IT controls. This study finds that such investment is negatively associated with the firm's abnormal investment, suggesting that investing in IT control personnel enhances a firm's investment efficiency. Furthermore, not only quantitative but also qualitative investment in IT control personnel improves investment efficiency. We also find that the association between human resource investment in IT controls and a firm's investment efficiency is more pronounced for firms with lower financial reporting quality and information environment. The results of this study provide useful implications for management, regulators, and market participants, as they demonstrate the positive role of investment in IT control personnel on the firm's internal decision.

Keywords: internal control; IT control; investment efficiency; Sarbanes–Oxley Act; human resource; financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: G30, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Dongjoon and Lee, Hansol and Lee, Ho‐Young and Park, Hyun-Young, The Association between Human Resource Investment in IT Controls over Financial Reporting and Investment Efficiency (September 4, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3917335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3917335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
V Arnold , J C Bedard , J R Phillips , S G Sutton
Do section 404 disclosures affect investors' perceptions of information systems reliability and stock price predictions?
Int. J. Account. Inf. Syst , volume 12 , p. 243 - 258 Posted: 2011
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
J. Account. Econ , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
Account. Rev , volume 83 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
G S Bae , S U Choi , D S Dhaliwal , P T Lamoreaux
Auditors and client investment efficiency
Account. Rev , volume 92 , p. 19 - 40 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
480
RANK
568,179
2 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies