Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysing the Growing Interplay of Accounting and Regulatory Capital: A State-of-the-Art Review

49 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2021

Daniel Rugilo

Department of Financial Accounting and Auditing, University Cologne

Date Written: September 6, 2021

Abstract

Accounting standards and prudential regulation are key elements of the financial system and are increasingly seen as complementary concepts despite their divergent objectives. This paper examines the growing convergence of accounting and Basel capital requirements in the wake of the latest financial crisis and reviews the empirical evidence on the risk behavioural and economic implications arising from the interactions. Loan loss provisioning under the IFRS 9 expected credit loss model as well as the prudential filter for unrealized fair value losses form the central link between accounting and regulatory capital as they align loss recognition and measurement methods. The remaining conceptual and methodological differences may trigger procyclical effects on banks’ capital and lending with negative consequences for financial stability. Based on the findings, the paper contributes to the discussion about a strict decoupling of the two systems to reconcile the conflict between accounting and regulatory objectives and identifies avenues for future research.

Keywords: Basel, Expected Credit Loss Model, Fair Value, Financial Stability, IFRS 9, Prudential Filters, Prudential Regulation

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Rugilo, Daniel, Analysing the Growing Interplay of Accounting and Regulatory Capital: A State-of-the-Art Review (September 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3918335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3918335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
J Abad , J Suárez
Assessing the cyclical implications of IFRS 9 -a recursive model
, issue 12 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2017
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
A R Admati , M Hellwig
The bankers' new clothes: What´s wrong with banking and what to do about it Posted: 2013
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a re-examination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
784
RANK
397,014
1 Citations
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies