Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Ability, Earnings Quality and ISIS: Evidence from Iraq

International Journal of Emerging Markets 2021, doi:10.1108/IJOEM-08-2020-1012

Posted: 25 Oct 2021

Ameneh Bazrafshan

Imam Reza International University

Naser Makarem

University of Aberdeen

Reza Hesarzadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Wafaa SalmanAbbood

Mustansiriyah University

Date Written: September 13, 2021

Abstract

Purpose - This study investigates the association between managerial ability and earnings quality in firms listed on the Iraq Stock Exchange and how the emergence of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) influences the association.

Design/methodology/approach - This study uses a sample of firms listed on the Iraq Stock Exchange over the period 2012-2018. Managerial ability is quantified using data envelopment analysis, and earnings quality is measured by earnings restatement, earnings persistence, accruals quality, and earnings response coefficient. Panel regression analysis is used to examine the research hypotheses.

Findings - The findings indicate that managerial ability positively affects earnings quality of Iraqi firms, and that ISIS weakens the relationship between managerial ability and earnings quality. These findings are robust to the alternative measures of managerial ability, as well as to various approaches used to address endogeneity including propensity-score matching and a difference-in-differences analysis.

Originality/value - This study provides insight into the impact of managerial ability on earnings quality in an under-studied emerging market. Furthermore, this study broadens the existing literature about the financial consequences of a modern terrorist group, ISIS.

Keywords: managerial ability, earnings quality, emerging markets, Iraq Stock Exchange, ISIS

Suggested Citation:

Bazrafshan, Ameneh and Makarem, Naser and Hesarzadeh, Reza and SalmanAbbood, Wafaa, Managerial Ability, Earnings Quality and ISIS: Evidence from Iraq (September 13, 2021). International Journal of Emerging Markets 2021, doi:10.1108/IJOEM-08-2020-1012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3922530
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
345
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies