Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust in Fair Value Accounting: Evidence from the Field

Journal of International Accounting Research 2021

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2022-150

46 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2021

Clarence Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Chu Yeong Lim

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Gary Pan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Kevin Ow Yong

Singapore Institute of Technology

Date Written: September 15, 2021

Abstract

We survey stakeholders in the financial reporting process to examine trust in fair value accounting. Though respondents demonstrate high confidence in financial statements, they believe that fair value accounting decreases trust in financial reporting and that preparing fair value numbers is costly but beneficial. They also strongly believe in the Conceptual Framework underlying standard setting. Using multivariate regression analyses, we find that perceiving fair value accounting as beneficial is positively associated with trust in it, consistent with the theory of reasoned action that people engage in behavior (e.g., trust) based on expected positive outcomes of that behavior. We find that this positive association increases with stronger beliefs in the Conceptual Framework. Our paper contributes to the fair value literature by providing general insights on trust in fair value accounting and a specific and novel assessment of how the perceived benefits of fair value accounting increase stakeholders’ trust in it.

Keywords: Trust, fair value accounting, Conceptual Framework

JEL Classification: D82, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Clarence and Lim, Chu Yeong and Ng, Jeffrey and Pan, Gary and Yong, Kevin Ow, Trust in Fair Value Accounting: Evidence from the Field (September 15, 2021). Journal of International Accounting Research 2021, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2022-150, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3924057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
M Abela , R Barker , R Sommer , A Teixera , P Andre
Towards a new Conceptual Framework: Presentations at the Accounting in Europe and European Accounting Association Financial Reporting Standards Committee Symposium , volume 11 , p. 259 - 271 Posted: 2014
K R Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
I Ajzen
Martin Fishbein's legacy: The reasoned action approach
The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science , volume 640 , p. 11 - 27 Posted: 2012
Load more
2 Citations
Stephanie Jana , Martin Schmidt
<span>Level 3 Fair Values for Financial Instruments: Relevance or Reliability? Evidence from a Conjoint Analysis</span><span></span>
Accounting and Business Research (forthcoming), ESCP Business School Research Paper · 56 Pages · Posted: 16 Aug 2017 · Last revised: 1 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 347
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kiridaran Kanagaretnam , Jimmy Lee , Chee Yeow Lim , Gerald J. Lobo
Institutions and Corporate Tax Evasion: A Review of Literature and a Methodological Exploration
Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Journal of International Accounting Research, forthcoming · 48 Pages · Posted: 19 Jun 2023 · Last revised: 25 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 219
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,249
RANK
279,629
2 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies