Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has Global Financial Reporting Comparability Improved?

55 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021 Last revised: 30 Mar 2022

Jenelle Conaway

Wake Forest University - Schools of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2022

Abstract

Motivated by ongoing worldwide efforts to improve the comparability of accounting information, I examine the temporal trend in global financial reporting comparability. Regulators have made serious efforts to improve comparability, but numerous frictions may have limited their effectiveness. Accordingly, I examine the time-series properties of comparability measures for a sample of the 36 largest economies and provide two key empirical insights. First, I confirm expectations of increasing comparability over 2002–2018. Second, I document that this increase primarily occurs in firms applying local accounting standards, as opposed to those applying global standards (defined as either US GAAP or IFRS). Additional analyses reveal that (i) firms applying local standards are becoming more comparable to firms applying IFRS but not to those applying US GAAP and that (ii) comparability within global-standards firms is not changing. I also document that certain market liquidity benefits of comparability are sustained in the long term, as firms increasing comparability over the sample period experience greater reductions in bid-ask spread and zero-return trading days, relative to those decreasing comparability. Overall, the results reveal that comparability has increased—consistent with systematic regulatory efforts—but that this increase arises heterogeneously across firms, with the primary effects in recent years occurring among those applying local standards.

Keywords: comparability; international accounting; globalization; IFRS

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Conaway, Jenelle, Has Global Financial Reporting Comparability Improved? (March 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3930285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3930285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P D Wysocki
Portfolio Preferences of Foreign Institutional Investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , issue 12 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are International Accounting Standards-based and US GAAP-based Accounting Amounts Comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
P Berger , R Hann
Segment Profitability and the Proprietary and Agency Costs of Disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 906 Posted: 2007
Load more
2 Citations
Chris E. Hogan , Sarah E. Stein , Sarah Stuber
Moving Towards Consensus: An Examination of Trends in Investment Fair Values
59 Pages · Posted: 27 Feb 2023 · Last revised: 1 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 171
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Konstantinos Chalevas , Maria Giaka , Dimitrios Gounopoulos , Dimitrios Konstantios
Accounting Comparability, ESG Reputational Risk and Corporate Investment Efficiency
53 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2024 · Last revised: 20 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 194
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
615
RANK
812,770
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies