Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of Challenges Facing Adoption of International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) in Valuation Reporting in Nigeria

European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, Vol.9, No. 6, pp.64-77, 2021

14 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2021

Chinaza Henry Obineme

Nnamdi Azikiwe University

Ifeanyichukwu Valentine Nwafor

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Stanley Chika Nwaogu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 2, 2021

Abstract

The issue of International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) has come to stay in Nigeria, and interests of scholars as regard to financial reporting in the public sector are geared to it. IPSAS have been embraced by many countries because of it numerous benefits in the area of transparency and accountability. However, this study evaluates the challenges facing adoption of international public sector accounting standards (IPSAS) in valuation reporting in Nigeria. And the aim is to examine the challenges facing adoption of international public sector accounting standards (IPSAS) in valuation reporting in Nigeria with a view to providing information that will enhance implementation in the relevant sectors of government. The research objectives are to identify the relevant content of the IPSAS that will be apply to valuation reporting, to analyze the challenges facing adoption of IPSAS, and to identify the extent of adoption IPSAS in valuation reporting in Nigeria for financial reporting. Questionnaire, key informant interviews, and content analysis were adopted. Nine hundred and thirty-four (934) Estate Surveyors and Valuers both in private and public sectors, in addition to twenty six (26) accountants in different ministries all-in Nigeria were sampled. Data obtained were analyzed with the use of the following statistical tools: Relative Importance Indices (RII), Mean, Frequency and Percentage Distribution. Findings indicate that political Challenges ranked first in both respondent’s views’ with (RII = 4.69) and (RII =5.00) respectively. And others variables followed which affects adoption of IPSAS. The study recommends that, for transparency, accountability and to be in line with international best practices that all the variables analyzed in this study should be fully considered and get right.

Keywords: valuation, estate surveyors and valuers, IPSAS, accrual accounting, financial report

Suggested Citation:

Obineme, Chinaza Henry and Nwafor, Ifeanyichukwu Valentine and Nwaogu, Stanley Chika, Evaluation of Challenges Facing Adoption of International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) in Valuation Reporting in Nigeria (October 2, 2021). European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, Vol.9, No. 6, pp.64-77, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3934812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Y Acho
The challenges of adopting IPSAS in Nigeria
Journal of Social Sciences and Public Policy , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 29 - 39 Posted: 2014
E O Adegite
Accounting, Accountability and National Development
Nigerian Accountant , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 64 Posted: 2010
Online
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
680
RANK
334,743
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies