Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing the Value Relevance of Selected Accounting Information in Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: The Case of Nigerian Listed Financial Service Firms

17 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2021

Kassim Busari

Ahmadu Bello University Zaria

Muhammad Mustapha Bagudo

Ahmadu Bello University (ABU)

Date Written: July 31, 2021

Abstract

In a company with a group structure, financial information is presented in two folds via consolidated and separate financial statements. The reporting of the similarly classified elements of financial statements arranged side by side in two columns carrying two different figures may be puzzling. Consequently, investors and other financial information users having two different figures available to them need to be guided as to which set(s) of information they need to make predictions and decisions. This study provides evidence about the comparative value relevance of accounting information for consolidated and separate financial statement of listed financial service firms in Nigeria. The study population is the entire listed financial services firms throughout the period of 2014-2018. Accounting information was represented by earnings per share, book value per share, dividend per share, and cash flow per share. These proxies were regressed against the market price per share. Data for accounting information were sourced from the annual reports of sampled firms and market prices from the Nigerian stock exchange factbook. A census sampling was used after a three-point filter was applied to the original population. The results show generally that both consolidated and separate accounting information is value relevant. However, consolidated accounting information is found to be more value relevant than separate accounting information. The study thus recommends the strengthening of firms’ operations, re-evaluation of the dividend policy, and enhanced implementation of IFRS standards to enhance value relevant accounting information that will be useful to the shareholders in making informed decision and taking adequate actions.

Keywords: Accounting information, Value Relevance, Comparative Analysis, Consolidated Financial Statement, Separate Financial Statement.

JEL Classification: G14, M41, N2

Suggested Citation:

Busari, Kassim and Bagudo, Muhammad Mustapha, Comparing the Value Relevance of Selected Accounting Information in Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: The Case of Nigerian Listed Financial Service Firms (July 31, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3936540 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3936540
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
C Abad , J Laffarga , A Garcia-Borbolla , M Larran , J M Pinero , N Garrod
An evaluation of the value relevance of consolidated versus unconsolidated accounting information: Evidence from quoted Spanish firms
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 156 - 177 Posted: 2000
J A Adetoso
Value relevance of accounting information on dividend per share on selected quoted companies in Nigeria
International Journal for innovative research in multidisciplinary field , volume 2 , issue 11 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2016
K A Adeyemo , S O Ajibolade , U Uwuigbe , O R Uwuigbe
Mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) by Nigerian listed banks: Any implication for value relevance?
International Journal of Accounting Research (IJAR) , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 33 Posted: 2017
M Y Alkali , N A Lode
The value relevance of accounting disclosures among listed Nigerian firms: IFRS adoption
Iranian Journal of Management Studies (IJMS) , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 707 - 740 Posted: 2016
Load more
1 Citations
Leszek Borowiec , Marzena Kacprzak , Agnieszka Król
Information Value of Individual and Consolidated Financial Statements for Indicative Liquidity Assessment of Polish Energy Groups in 2018–2021
Energies , volume 16 , issue 9 , p. 3670 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
809
RANK
362,814
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies