Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Accounting Policy Options under IFRS in Europe: Do Country, Industry, and Topic Factors Matter?

Contemporary Economics (2021), Vol. 15 No. 3, pp. 289-308

20 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2021

Karsten Eisenschmidt

Fachhochschule Kiel: University of Applied Sciences

Joanna Krasodomska

Cracow University of Economics

Date Written: September 8, 2021

Abstract

Since the formation of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the use of In-ternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) has spread and they have become global standards for financial reporting. However, they are not used unanimously all over the world. This paper focuses on differences in countries’ approaches to IFRS. Our study aims to investi-gate the use of accounting policy choice for selected options in Europe with a particular focus on countries, industry and topic-specific firm factors. We analyze financial statements of 416 companies of the STOXX Europe 600 operating in 17 European countries. We use content analysis to identify the companies’ decisions to choose a particular option allowed under IFRS and run a logistic regression to identify potential factors that influence them. Our findings suggest that the factors under investigation do not always have a significant influence on the accounting option choice. However, the country variables seem to have a stronger influence than industry or topic variables. The study contributes to the body of literature mainly because it investigates a uniform European setting with the use of the 2017 data and it covers coun-tries not included in previous studies. Its results also provide a basis for discussion on the fi-nancial statements quality and the impact of IFRS across countries.

Keywords: Accounting choice, IFRS, international differences, Europe, accounting harmonization

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eisenschmidt, Karsten and Krasodomska, Joanna, The Use of Accounting Policy Options under IFRS in Europe: Do Country, Industry, and Topic Factors Matter? (September 8, 2021). Contemporary Economics (2021), Vol. 15 No. 3, pp. 289-308, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3940957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
References References Ajili , H Bouri , A
Comparative study between IFRS and AAOIFI disclosure compliance: evidence from Islamic banks in Gulf Co-Operation Council countries
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 269 - 292 Posted: 2017
N Albu , C N Albu
IFRS Application in Central and South-Eastern European Countries. Accounting & Management Information Systems , volume 13 , p. 182 - 197 Posted: 2014
J Aledo , F García-Martínez , J M Marín Diazaraque
Firm-specific factors influencing the selection of accounting options provided by the IFRS. Working Paper series at the Bank of Spain
Documentos de Trabajo N.º 0926 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 2009
O Bahadir , B Tolga
Accounting policy options under IFRS: Evidence from Turkey. Accounting and Management Information Systems , volume 12 , p. 388 - 404 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
675
RANK
478,514
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies