Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Desoky, A. M. (2013). An Empirical Investigation of International Accounting Harmony – Evidence from Egypt, Jordan and GCC Countries

25 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Abdelmohsen Desoky

UoB

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines the extent of accounting practices
harmony with particular focus on measurement practices of
listed companies in eight Arab developing countries namely
Egypt, Jordan and the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC)
countries. The paper extends the previous literature in this
field and provides evidence on the International Accounting
Harmony (IAH) between these eight countries. The empirical
study is based on a sample of 250 non-financial companies
for the financial year 2010. I index was used to measure the
degree of accounting harmony between countries, while the
Chi-square test was employed to test the equality of the
proportions of accounting measurement methods choices
across the eight countries. A full harmony was found in three
areas namely short-term investment valuation, investment in
associates, and foreign currency translate of monetary assets
and liabilities. Further a high degree of harmony was found in
some areas, while a lower level of harmony was found in
others. The scope of this study is limited to a sample of 250
companies from the eight countries investigated and they may
not represent all of the possible listed companies in these
countries. Thus, it might be better to look at companies from
a wider range in a future study. This study makes a
considerable contribution to our understanding of corporate
accounting practices in these countries of emerging stock
markets.


Keywords: Keywords: Arab stock markets; International accounting harmony (IAH); International financial reporting standards (IFRS).

JEL Classification: M40 , M41

Suggested Citation:

Desoky, Abdelmohsen, Desoky, A. M. (2013). An Empirical Investigation of International Accounting Harmony – Evidence from Egypt, Jordan and GCC Countries (July 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3950852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange (ADX) 42,825 , volume 435 Posted: 5261
Amman Stock , Exchange
, volume 998
Bahrain Stock , Exchange
Doha Securities , Market
, volume 439
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
374
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies