Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance and Predictability of IFRS Accounting Information: The Case of the GCC Stock Markets

International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting

21 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Abdelmohsen Desoky

UoB

Date Written: April 1, 2014

Abstract

This paper investigates some earning attributes (as the value relevance and predictability) of
accounting information provided under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS )
in the Bahrain Bourse (BHB) and the Muscat Securities Market (MSM). The sample used in
this research consists of 280 year-firm observations from 40 different companies listed in
BHB; and a total 203 year-firm observations from 29 companies listed in MSM covering the
period 2005-11. The findings of the study suggest that, for BHB, the adoption of IFRS leads
to improvement in the value relevance of financial reporting contradictory predictability
attribute as predictability of accounting information in listed companies of BHB is reduced
after the adaption of IFRS. In MSM, the adoption of IFRS captures approximately similar
value relevance of accounting information before adoption IFRS, however, predictability of
accounting information improves after the adaption of IFRS. It was clear that the IFRS
adoption by companies in MSM enhances the predictability of accounting information more
than in BHB.


Keywords: Keywords: Earning Attributes, Value Relevance, Predictability, Financial Reporting, Bahrain Bourse and Muscat Securities Market

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Desoky, Abdelmohsen, The Value Relevance and Predictability of IFRS Accounting Information: The Case of the GCC Stock Markets (April 1, 2014). International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3950813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3950813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Statement of Principles for Financial Reporting
Accounting Standard Board -ASB Posted: 1999-10
J Aharony , R Barniv , Haim Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
F Alali , P Foote
The value relevance of international financial reporting standards: Empirical evidence in an emerging market
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 47 , p. 85 - 108 Posted: 2012
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants -AICPA 2013, International Financial Reporting Standards-IFRS
Load more
1 Citations
Ayman E. Haddad , Fatima Baalbaki Shibly , Ruwaidah Haddad
Voluntary Disclosure of Accounting Ratios and Firm-Specific Characteristics: The Case of GCC
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting Volume 18 Issue 2 2020 · 45 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 15 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
430
RANK
730,413
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies