Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing Personal Income Tax Gap in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic

Hájek, J., Olexová, C., 2021. Comparing Personal Income Tax Gap in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. Politicka ekonomie. 69 (6).

28 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2021

Jan Hájek

University of Finance and Administration

Cecilia Olexová

University of Economics in Bratislava - Faculty of Business Economics

Date Written: November 7, 2021

Abstract

This paper deals with the personal income tax gap in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. One of its sections specifically addresses the relation between the tax gap and various forms of tax evasion concerning the personal income tax, setting them in the context of its calculation subsequently. The key implication of this paper is the estimation and comparison of the personal income tax gap between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic using the income method, broken down to specific types of tax evasion, namely (i) unreported income subject to payroll taxes, (ii) missreported tax base by self-employed individuals (i.e. sole proprietors of unincorporated businesses) and (iii) hidden employment. In line with the existing academic literature, a higher magnitude of the tax gap was found for income reported by self-employed persons (i.e. sole proprietors of unincorporated businesses) than for persons with income from dependent activities (i.e. employment and similar legal concepts).

Keywords: Tax gap; Personal income tax; Czech Republic; Slovak Republic

JEL Classification: H21, H24, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hájek, Jan and Olexová, Cecilia, Comparing Personal Income Tax Gap in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic (November 7, 2021). Hájek, J., Olexová, C., 2021. Comparing Personal Income Tax Gap in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. Politicka ekonomie. 69 (6)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3958243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M G Alingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1972 , issue 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
J Alm , K Borders
Estimating the "Tax Gap" at the State Level: The Case of Georgia's Personal Income Tax
Public Budgeting & Finance , volume 34 Posted: 2014
, p. 61 - 79
J.-E Bäckman
The development of the tax gap in Sweden 2007-12
Skatteverket. The Swedish Tax Agency Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
618
RANK
724,701
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies