Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of Cross-Border Profit Shifting Channels

Tax and Transfer Policy Institute, working paper - 18/2021

87 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2021

Alfred Tran

Australian National University

Wanmeng Xu

Australian National University (ANU) - School of Accounting & Business Information Systems

Date Written: November 8, 2021

Abstract

In this study, we investigate two cross-border profit shifting channels of foreign multinational enterprises (MNEs) in Australia and assess the effectiveness of the related measures adopted by the Australian Parliament to combat base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS). Specifically, we use propensity score matching (PSM) and coarsened exact matching (CEM) to match a group of foreign-owned Australian companies (FOACs) that are subsidiaries of foreign MNEs and have strong incentives to shift profits out of Australia to avoid Australian tax (the treatment group) with a group of predominantly domestic-owned listed Australian companies (DOLACs) that have little incentives to do so (the control group) to identify cross-border profit shifting activities using two channels: intra-group transfer pricing and debt financing and/or interest expense loading. We further use the difference-in-differences approach to compare the extent of cross-border profit shifting by FOACs between the pre-BEPS period (2007 to 2012) and the postBEPS period (2013 to 2020) to evaluate the effectiveness of the related Australian BEPS countermeasures. Overall, we find that FOACs uses tax-induced intra-group transfer pricing and interest expense loading arrangements to shift profit out of Australia in the entire 14-year study period from 2007 to 2020. However, up to 2020 we cannot find any significant evidence indicating that the related Australian BEPS countermeasures are effective in reducing cross-border profit shifting. Perhaps it takes time for the effects of these measures to be reflected in the financial reports of FOACs due to administrative time lags.

Keywords: base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS), transfer pricing, debt financing, Australian countermeasures, propensity score matching, coarsened exact matching

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Alfred and Xu, Wanmeng, A Study of Cross-Border Profit Shifting Channels (November 8, 2021). Tax and Transfer Policy Institute, working paper - 18/2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3961184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3961184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
D Amiram , A M Bauer , M M Frank
Tax avoidance at public corporations driven by shareholder taxes: evidence from changes in dividend tax policy
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 27 - 55 Posted: 2019
Base erosion and profit shifting Posted: 2019-05-22
ATO nets another e-commerce victory (Media Release Posted: 2019-12-18
R S Avi-Yonah , H Xu
Global taxation after the crisis: Why BEPS and MAATM are inadequate responses, and what can be done about it
, issue 494 Posted: 2016-01-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
798
RANK
461,979
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies