Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of the Impacts of the Adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue From Contracts With Customers

40 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2021 Last revised: 15 Jun 2022

Le Ma

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Sebastian Onie

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Helen Spiropoulos

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Peter Alfred Wells

University of Technology Sydney, Accounting Discipline Group ; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: November 3, 2021

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to evaluate the impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on the relevance of general purpose financial reports for Australian listed firms. There was considerable variation in the impacts and the disclosures made relating to transition to the new standard, and that many firms transitioned with minimal disclosures. This included firms where the impacts were material. There is some evidence that the impacts of transitioning to the new accounting standard were targeted at firms where earnings were less relevant. However, there is little evidence that the new standard improved the relevance of earnings generally, and whether it resolved issues with the relevance of earnings is doubtful.

Keywords: Revenue, IAS 15

JEL Classification: M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Le and Onie, Sebastian and Spiropoulos, Helen and Wells, Peter Alfred, An Evaluation of the Impacts of the Adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue From Contracts With Customers (November 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3963462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3963462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
M E Barth , W R Landsman , D Young , Z Zhuang
Relevance of Differences between Net Income based on IFRS and Domestic Standards for European Firms
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 41 , issue 3-4 , p. 297 - 327 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
888
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,149
RANK
61,682
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies