Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mutual Agreement Procedures in Hungary

Posted: 5 Jan 2022

Gabriella Erdos

Corvinus University of Budapest

Date Written: November 17, 2021

Abstract

The mutual agreement procedure (MAP) is an instrument for the resolution of international tax disputes whenever a person considers that the actions of the tax authorities result in taxation not in accordance with the provisions a tax treaty or an international agreement. The article - submitted for publication to the International Transfer Pricing Journal, IBFD - analyses Hungary’s recent MAP guidelines regarding double tax treaty, dispute resolution directive, and arbitration convention based MAPs, and their application to transfer pricing cases. It also elaborates on the recent structural changes within the competent authorities.

Keywords: Mutual agreement procedure, dispute resolution, transfer pricing

JEL Classification: K34, K41

Suggested Citation:

Erdos, Gabriella, Mutual Agreement Procedures in Hungary (November 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3965684
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies