Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Approach to the Evaluation of the Quality of Accounting Research in the Spanish University System and its Implications

39 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2022

Josep M. Argilés‐Bosch

University of Barcelona

Josep Garcia-Blandon

IQS School of Management (Universitat Ramon Llull)

Diego Ravenda

Toulouse University, Toulouse Business School

Date Written: April 8, 2021

Abstract

This Research analyses the convenience and consequences of the ANECA criteria for the assessment of the research performed by accounting academics in Spain. We focus on the level for the accreditation of catedrático de universidad, and the publication patterns and possibilities of the accounting scholars in Spain. We find that they have more difficulties for publication than their counterparts in adjacent fields of knowledge. Most of the accounting academics affiliated to Spanish institutions than have succeeded in publishing in the top international accounting journals co-authored their articles with foreign authors, mainly affiliated to USA or UK institutions, and/or focused their research on international setting and topics. The Spanish regulation for accreditation stresses this pattern. This situation may have serious consequences for the survival of the accounting discipline in Spain and for the research on topics focused on Spanish problems.

Keywords: accounting research, critical accounting research, ANECA accreditation, Spain

Suggested Citation:

Argiles-Bosch, Josep M. and Garcia-Blandon, Josep and Ravenda, Diego, A Critical Approach to the Evaluation of the Quality of Accounting Research in the Spanish University System and its Implications (April 8, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3966194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3966194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
L W Aarssen , T Tregenza , A E Budden , C J Lortie , J Koricheva , R Leimu
Bang for Your Buck: Rejection Rates and Impact Factors in Ecological Journals
The Open Ecology Journal , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 14 - 19 Posted: 2008
R K Adair
A physics editor comment on Peters and Ceci's peer-review study
The Behavioral and Brain Sciences , volume 5 Posted: 0196
Informe periódico de ANECA para la acreditación en los Cuerpos Docentes Universitarios
Difusión de resultados Posted: 2017
Informe periódico de ANECA para la acreditación en los Cuerpos Docentes Universitarios
Difusión de resultados Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
561
RANK
736,113
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies