Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Integrated Financial and Extra-Financial Narrative Disclosures in the Management Commentary Affect Firm Valuation? International Evidence

Corporate Narrative Reporting: Beyond the Numbers (pp.1-28). Routledge: Taylor and Francis, 2021

28 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2022

Muhammad Jahangir Ali

La Trobe University, Department of Accounting, Data Analytics, Economics and Finance

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Muhammad Shahin Miah

Coventry University; University of Dhaka

Date Written: November 18, 2021

Abstract

We examine the association of integrated financial and extra-financial narrative disclosures in the management commentary section of corporate annual reports with firm valuation, as well as the moderating role of internal and external governance mechanisms in this association. Using 31,327 firm-year observations across 63 countries from 2003–2019, we find that integrated financial and extra-financial narrative disclosures in the management commentary are positively associated with firm valuation. This relationship is more pronounced for firms with better internal governance (corporate governance) and external governance (institutional investors’ ownership and analysts’ coverage) mechanisms. The study findings contribute to the debate on the relative costs and benefits of providing integrated financial and extra-financial narrative disclosures in the management commentary and have important implications for regulators, policy makers, investors, financial analysts, and company management throughout the world.



Keywords: Narrative disclosures, management commentary, firm valuation, institutional ownership, analyst coverage, cross-country

JEL Classification: G32, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Muhammad Jahangir and Bose, Sudipta and Miah, Muhammad Shahin, Do Integrated Financial and Extra-Financial Narrative Disclosures in the Management Commentary Affect Firm Valuation? International Evidence (November 18, 2021). Corporate Narrative Reporting: Beyond the Numbers (pp.1-28). Routledge: Taylor and Francis, 2021 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3966316 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3966316
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
W Aerts
Narrative accounting disclosures , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2015
N Attig , S Cleary , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
Institutional investment horizon and investment-cash flow sensitivity
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1164 - 1180 Posted: 2012
O E Barron , C O Kile , T B O'keefe
MD&A quality as measured by the SEC and analysts' earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 109 Posted: 1999
S B Bonsall , B P Miller
The impact of narrative disclosure readability on bond ratings and the cost of debt
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 608 - 643 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
857
RANK
472,944
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies