Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individualism, Reference-dependent Preferences, and Stock Market Anomalies around the World

66 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2021 Last revised: 13 Jun 2025

Tse-Chun Lin

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Zhaobo Zhu

Shenzhen University; Audencia Business School

Date Written: September 22, 2021

Abstract

We provide novel evidence that reference-dependent preferences, proxied by capital gains overhang, are positively priced in the cross-section around the world. We then show that individualism explains the cross-market variations in the pricing of reference-dependent preferences. In addition, reference-dependent preferences strongly explain the MAX effect, the idiosyncratic volatility puzzle, and the distress anomaly around the world, but weakly explain price and earnings momentum. Moreover, in a unified framework, reference-dependent preferences alter the relation between individualism and market anomalies, and individualism influences the role of reference-dependent preferences in explaining anomalies, shedding new light on the role of individualism and reference-dependent preferences in asset pricing. 

Keywords: Reference-dependent preferences, National culture, Individualism, Capital gains overhang, Anomalies

JEL Classification: G4, G11, G14

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Tse-Chun and Zhu, Zhaobo, Individualism, Reference-dependent Preferences, and Stock Market Anomalies around the World (September 22, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3967858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3967858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Eric J Allen , M Patricia , Devin G Dechow , George Pope , Wu ; An , Huijun Li , Jian Wang , Jianfeng Wang , Yu
Lottery-Related Anomalies: The Role of Reference-Dependent Preferences
Management Science , volume 63 , p. 473 - 501 Posted: 2017
Anne-Marie Anderson , Edward A Dyl
Market structure and trading volume
Journal of Financial Research , volume 28 , p. 115 - 131 Posted: 2005
Andrew Ang , Robert J Hodrick , Yuhang Xing , Xiaoyan Zhang
High idiosyncratic volatility and low returns: International and further U.S. evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 91 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2009
Malcolm Baker , Xin Pan , Jeffrey Wurgler
The effect of reference point prices on mergers and acquisitions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 106 , p. 49 - 71 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Fabian Hollstein , Vulnet Sejdiu
Probability distortions, collectivism, and international stock prices
Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance , volume 39 , p. 100836 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
770
RANK
521,427
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies