Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shapley Value: A Fair Solution to the Value Creation Puzzle in Transfer Pricing?

Reprinted from Tax Notes International (Oct. 18, 2021, pp. 291-306) with permission from Tax Analysts (@TaxNotes).

17 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2021

Verena Hahn

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz

Yves Hervé

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Salem Saljanin

University of Hamburg

Lorraine Eden

Dept of Management, Mays Business School, Texas A&M University ; School of Law, Texas A&M University

Date Written: October 18, 2021

Abstract

The 2017 OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations (“the TPG”) recommends that transfer pricing outcomes be aligned with value creation. The value creation concept is, however, difficult to apply in situations where multiple legal entities in differ-ent tax jurisdictions contribute jointly to the profits earned by a multinational enterprise (MNE) on its intangible assets. We argue that, in such situations, the Shapley Value can be used to determine a fair and robust arm’s-length attribution based on each entity’s contributions to the group profit. We start by briefly discussing the TPG’s value creation concept for implementing the arm’s length principle and outline some challenging issues with the concept. Next, we explain the Shapley Value concept, provide a brief literature review, and argue that Shapley Value can help implement the value creation concept. Our arguments are illustrated with an empirical case study using Shapley Value to allocate MNE profits with respect to marketing intangibles. Our paper contributes to the growing literature on value creation and DEMPE (Development, Enhancement, Maintenance, Pro-tection, Exploitation) contributions to intangibles, provides one of the few empirical applications of the Shapley Value to transfer pricing, and suggests a way forward in making the TPG concept of value creation concrete and useable by transfer pricing practitioners.

Keywords: transfer pricing, Shapley Value, international tax, value creation, DEMPE

JEL Classification: F23m H25, H26, K34, K420, k330, L11

Suggested Citation:

Hahn, Verena and Hervé, Yves and Saljanin, Salem and Eden, Lorraine, Shapley Value: A Fair Solution to the Value Creation Puzzle in Transfer Pricing? (October 18, 2021). Reprinted from Tax Notes International (Oct. 18, 2021, pp. 291-306) with permission from Tax Analysts (@TaxNotes)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3969517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Michael Lennard
Act of Creation: The OECD/G20 Test of 'Value Creation' as a Basis for Taxing Rights and Its Relevance to Developing Countries
Transnat'l Corp , volume 25 , issue 3 Posted: 2018
Allison Christians
Taxing According to Value Creation
Tax Notes Int'l Posted: 2018-06-18
Richard Collier
The Value Creation Mythology
Taxation and Value Creation, supra note 4
Stanley I Langbein , Max R Fuss
The OECD/G20-BEPS-Project and the Value Creation Paradigm: Economic Reality Disemboguing Into the Interpretation of the 'Arm's Length' Standard , volume 259 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,430
RANK
138,390
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies