Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Global : Evidence from India

International Journal of Banking, Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021 Last revised: 25 Oct 2023

Sheeja Sivaprasad

University of Westminster

Roberta Adami

Westminster Business School

Premkanth Puwanenthiren

Westminster University

Sudha Mathew

University of Westminster

Date Written: December 9, 2021

Abstract

American Depository Receipts (ADRs) and Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) remain one of the predominant routes used by firms in emerging economies to list overseas. However, the aftermarket performance of ADR/GDR issuances is not widely researched amongst emerging economies. Using an Indian sample of ADR and GDR issues, we analyse the short and long-term performance of these firms. We adopt an event study methodology to assess the short-term performance and Lyon et al. (1999)’s approach to examine the long-term performance. We also examine the changes in firms’ operating performance following ADR/GDR issuances. The results show that the short-term buy and hold abnormal returns for ADRs are relatively better than GDRs and in the long run yield positive abnormal returns. These firms also have better operating performance post their overseas issuance in the American stock markets and finally the results also show that ADR issues is a key driver in firm performance.

Keywords: American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs), Performance, Announcement Period, Operational Characteristics

JEL Classification: G1,G3,G15

Suggested Citation:

Sivaprasad, Sheeja and Adami, Roberta and Puwanenthiren, Premkanth and Mathew, Sudha, Going Global : Evidence from India (December 9, 2021). International Journal of Banking, Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3981748 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3981748
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Aggarwal , S Dahiya , L Klapper
ADR holdings of US-based emerging market funds
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 31 , p. 1649 - 1667 Posted: 2007
V T Alaganar , R Bhar
Diversification gains from American depositary receipts and foreign equities: evidence from Australian stocks
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 11 , p. 97 - 113 Posted: 2001
K P Aquino , S Poshakwale
Price determinants of American Depositary Receipts (ADR): a cross-sectional analysis of panel data
Applied Financial Economics , volume 16 , p. 1225 - 1237 Posted: 2006
S C Bae , T H Kwon , M Li
Foreign exchange rate exposure and risk premium in international investments: Evidence from American depositary receipts
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 18 , p. 165 - 179 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
352,454
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies