Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review on the Probability of Default for IFRS 9

49 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021 Last revised: 20 Apr 2022

Matthias Bank

University of Innsbruck

Bernhard Eder

University of Innsbruck

Date Written: December 9, 2021

Abstract

By means of a systematic literature review, we provide a comprehensive overview of 52 contributions on the estimation of the probability of default according to the "Expected Credit Loss Model" (ECLM) in IFRS~9 and the corresponding stage allocation. We distinguish the models discussed to estimate the probability of default with regard to the data they use as well as their time-space and state-space. Thus, we not only consider the merits and limitations of particular models in isolation, but also demonstrate how they are related to each other and where they differ. Due to the methodological diversity alone, it can be expected that loss allowances for expected credit losses will differ significantly across banks. In addition, we discuss the implementation of the stage allocation in the ECLM. Its inherent scope for discretion is likely to further amplify differences in the level of loss allowances across banks.

Keywords: IFRS 9, expected credit loss model, financial instruments, literature review

JEL Classification: C58, G23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bank, Matthias and Eder, Bernhard, A Review on the Probability of Default for IFRS 9 (December 9, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3981339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3981339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
Edward I Altman , Erkki K Małgorzata Iwanicz-Drozdowska , Arto Laitinen , Suvas
Financial and nonfinancial variables as long-horizon predictors of bankruptcy
Journal of Credit Risk , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 4092 - 4111 Posted: 2016
Bart Baesens , Daniel Röesch , Harald Scheule
Credit Risk Analytics: Measurement Techniques, Applications, and Examples in SAS Posted: 2017
Anil Bangia , Francis X Diebold , Christian Kronimus Andréand Schagen , Til Schuermann
Ratings Migration and the Business Cycle, with Application to Credit Portfolio Stress Testing
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 26 , issue 2-3 , p. 445 - 474 Posted: 2002
Guidance on accounting for expected credit losses. Guideline. Basel Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,279
RANK
41,608
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies