Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair-value Analytical Valuation of Reset Executive Stock Options Consistent with IFRS9 Requirements

https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/annals-of-actuarial-science/article/abs/fairvalue-analytical-valuation-of-reset-executive-stock-options-consistent-with-ifrs9-requirements/248074807619ED117875AE4B04E9521B

Posted: 10 Jan 2022

Otto Konstandatos

University of Technology Sydney; University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - Quantitative Finance Research Centre; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 23, 2020

Abstract

Executive stock options (ESOs) are widely used to reward employees and represent major items of corporate liability. The International Accounting Standards Board IFRS9 financial reporting standard which came into full effect on 1-Jan 2018, along with its Australian implementation AASB9, requires public corporations to report their fair-value cost in financial statements. Reset ESOs are typically issued to re-incentivise employees by allowing the option to be cancelled and re-issued with a lower exercise price or later maturity. We produce a novel analytical Reset ESO valuation consistent with the IFRS9 financial reporting standard incorporating the simultaneous resetting of vesting period, exercise window, reset level and maturity. We allow for voluntary and involuntary exercise. Our analytical result is expressed solely in terms of standardised European binary power option instruments. Using the multi-state mortality model of Hariyanto (2014, Mortality and disability modelling with an application to pricing a reverse mortgage contract, PhD thesis, University of Melbourne), we estimate longitudinal disability and death transition probabilities from cross-sectional data. We determine survival functions for pre-vesting forfeiture or post-vesting involuntary exercise for use with weighted portfolios of our formulae to illustrate the effect of survival on the fair value. We examine the IFRS9 method of valuation using expected time to option exercise and demonstrate a consistent overestimation of fair value of up to 27% for senior executives.

Keywords: Executive compensation, Exotic options, Resetting, Non life-insurance liabilities

JEL Classification: M40, G30, G32, J33

Suggested Citation:

Konstandatos, Otto, Fair-value Analytical Valuation of Reset Executive Stock Options Consistent with IFRS9 Requirements (January 23, 2020). https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/annals-of-actuarial-science/article/abs/fairvalue-analytical-valuation-of-reset-executive-stock-options-consistent-with-ifrs9-requirements/248074807619ED117875AE4B04E9521B, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4004271
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
263
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies