Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain, XBRL, IFRS Relevance among Current Accounting Publications: Quantification of the Largest Publishers

Shkulipa, L. (2021). Blockchain, XBRL, IFRS Relevance among Current Accounting Publications: Quantification of the Largest Publishers . International Journal of Economics, Management and Accounting, 29(2), 433–497. Retrieved from https://journals.iium.edu.my/enmjournal/index.php/enmj/article/view/91

Posted: 10 Jan 2022 Last revised: 20 Mar 2023

Lyudmyla Shkulipa

International European University; NAAS of Ukraine

Date Written: December 28, 2021

Abstract

This paper analyzes accounting publications of the largest publisher by accounting journals, to evaluate the coverage of accounting directions, and indicate the current popularity of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL), and blockchain technology. The source of the 882 accounting articles which support the study is Wiley Online Library. The methods used in this research are based on a cross-sectional survey between the Wiley Online Library and SCImago databases covering the years 2018-2019 only. The results show 33% of the evaluated journals of the Wiley publishers have a high extent of coverage. Among them are the journals with Q1 – the Contemporary Accounting Research (CAR), the Journal of Business Finance and Accounting (JBFA), the Journal of Accounting Research (JAR), the Financial Management journal (FM), and the Journal of Finance (JF). Our study concludes that the most frequent accounting topics published in 2018 and 2019 are management accounting (12%), audit and control (11%), capital (11%), and financial statements (8,4%); and the least frequent are IFRS including XBRL (5%) and blockchain technology (2%). We found that the CAR; the Australian Accounting Review (AAR); JBFA; Accounting Perspectives; Abacus have published many topics associated with IFRS and XBRL in 2018-2019. Similarly, Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance, and Management (ISAFM); FM; AAR have published on blockchain issues. This study might help scholars to select an appropriate journal for relevant research and inform them about accounting directions least disclosed in 2018 and 2019 and encourage SCImago to include/exclude some journals to/from the “accounting” category.

Keywords: Accounting topics; coverage; IFRS; accounting journals; publishers

JEL Classification: M40; M39

Suggested Citation:

Shkulipa, Lyudmyla, Blockchain, XBRL, IFRS Relevance among Current Accounting Publications: Quantification of the Largest Publishers (December 28, 2021). Shkulipa, L. (2021). Blockchain, XBRL, IFRS Relevance among Current Accounting Publications: Quantification of the Largest Publishers . International Journal of Economics, Management and Accounting, 29(2), 433–497. Retrieved from https://journals.iium.edu.my/enmjournal/index.php/enmj/article/view/91, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4004590
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
273
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies