Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Possible impact of adoption of IFRS 17 on the acquisitions and disposals in Malawian general insurance industry

Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 1. Aug 2020

8 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2022

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: August 1, 2020

Abstract

IFRS 17 the insurance contract accounting standard repealed IFRS 4 in May 2017 and its mandatory adoption has been delayed twice already from 1st January 2021 to 2022 and later 2023. It will have serious impact on the insurance business once it is mandatory for adoption as investment in information and technology has to be enhanced to produce data suitable for that purpose. This can encourage additional acquisitions in the Malawian general industry where costs for additional information technology might too high and therefore business acquisition would be the best strategy to lessen any compliance risk.

Keywords: IFRS 17; Acquisition; Insurance; Malawi

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Possible impact of adoption of IFRS 17 on the acquisitions and disposals in Malawian general insurance industry (August 1, 2020). Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal Vol. 1 Special Issue 1. Aug 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4007750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
B Kampanje
PESTEL analysis of Malawi's non-life insurance industry
African Journal of Economic and Management Studies Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Brian Phiri Kampanje
Post Review of the Adoption of IFRS 17- Insurance Contracts by the Malawian Holding Companies
14 Pages · Posted: 14 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 81
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
407
RANK
631,616
1 Citations
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies