Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the meaning, inportance and translation of "realised"

44 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2022

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: January 15, 2022

Abstract

This paper makes a comprehensive examination of the extensive use of “realised” in IFRS. The term appears frequently but is not defined. It seems to have a variety of meanings, technical and not. In some jurisdictions, the term also occurs as part of the legal limit on dividend payments, but (taking the example of the UK) its definition for that purpose is inconsistent with any of the implied meanings in IFRS. In translations of IFRS, “realised” is usually rendered using cognate words (e.g. “réalisé”) but sometimes is not. In some translations, these words appear far more often than in the original IFRS. This paper makes suggestions about how to remove the term from IFRS in order to improve clarity.

Keywords: realised, distributable profit, IFRS, translation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nobes, Christopher William, On the meaning, inportance and translation of "realised" (January 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4009719 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4009719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
D Alexander
A European true and fair view?
European Accounting Review , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 80 Posted: 1993
D Alexander , H De Brébisson , C Circa , E Eberhartinger , R Fasiello , M Grottke , J Krasodomska
Philosophy of language and accounting. Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 31 , issue 7 , p. 1957 - 1980 Posted: 2018
R Barker
Reporting financial performance. Accounting Horizons , volume 18 , p. 157 - 172 Posted: 2004
R Baskerville , L Evans
The Darkening Glass: Issues for Translation of IFRS. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,484
RANK
864,731
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies