Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Jurisprudence and the Conceptual Framework project: The enduring ideas of Scott, Spacek and Stamp

Lakshminarayan, S. (2021) ‘Jurisprudence and the conceptual framework project: the enduring ideas of Scott, Spacek and Stamp’, Int. J. Critical Accounting, Vol. 12, No. 5, pp.444–464.

Posted: 10 Mar 2022

Srivatsan Lakshminarayan

Brunel University London - College of Business, Arts and Social Sciences

Date Written: June 20, 2021

Abstract

Accounting conceptual frameworks issued by standard-setters, traditionally represent provisional resolutions of intricate and intense conflicts about the objectives and qualitative characteristics of financial information. Recent changes by the IASB (including jointly with the FASB) have been criticised for the elimination or dilution of established framework concepts. Such criticisms call into question, processes of reasoning underlying framework development. Since arbitrary choices or exclusive assumptions cannot reliably resolve normative conflicts, juridical approaches offer a viable alternative. Analogous to law, robust framework principles assume a form of constitutional authority through appeals to fairness and justice. This paper examines and synthesises insights from three key accounting thinkers of the twentieth century. Their pioneering contributions emphasise the philosophical and methodological salience of jurisprudence for establishing credible accounting principles. The persistent relevance of these ideas, originating primarily in the pre-FASB period, offer a compelling opportunity to reclaim possibilities for a substantive, inclusive and responsive Conceptual Framework.

Keywords: conceptual frameworks; decision-usefulness; Financial Accounting Standards Board; FASB; International Accounting Standards Board; IASB; jurisprudence; legal reasoning; norms; Scott; Spacek; Stamp.

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lakshminarayan, Srivatsan, Jurisprudence and the Conceptual Framework project: The enduring ideas of Scott, Spacek and Stamp (June 20, 2021). Lakshminarayan, S. (2021) ‘Jurisprudence and the conceptual framework project: the enduring ideas of Scott, Spacek and Stamp’, Int. J. Critical Accounting, Vol. 12, No. 5, pp.444–464., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014240
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
180
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies