Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Culture and Corporate Governance on Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Cross Country Analysis

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, 2018

Journal of Cleaner Production, 198, 820-832. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.07.057, 2018

Posted: 25 Jan 2022

Shayuti Mohamed Adnan

Universiti Malaysia Terengganu (UMT) - Faculty of Management and Economics

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Chris van Staden

Auckland University of Technology - Faculty of Business & Law

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

We investigate the effects of national culture and corporate governance on corporate social responsibility reporting and the extent to which corporate governance has a moderating effect on the cultural influences on corporate social responsibility reporting. A total of 403 annual reports, corporate websites and corporate sustainability stand-alone reports pertaining to 203 companies in China, Malaysia, India and the United Kingdom were evaluated. Corporate social responsibility reporting is more prevalent in companies in countries in which the society is individualistic and also in societies where there is low power distance. Corporate social responsibility reporting is enhanced by corporate governance in the form of social responsibility board committees, while government ownership influences the reporting quality of corporate social responsibility reporting. Corporate governance moderates some of the detrimental cultural influences on corporate social responsibility reporting. These findings have implications for the development of guidelines for corporate social responsibility and sustainability reporting across countries. A further contribution is to show that national culture is associated with resistance to reporting corporate social responsibility, but that corporate governance can help to mitigate the influence of national culture.



Keywords: Culture, Corporate social responsibility reporting, Corporate governance, Government ownership, Corporate social responsibility board committee

Suggested Citation:

Mohamed Adnan, Shayuti and Hay, David and van Staden, Chris, The Influence of Culture and Corporate Governance on Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Cross Country Analysis (2018). The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, 2018, Journal of Cleaner Production, 198, 820-832. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.07.057, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4016840
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
670
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies