Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spanish Economist-Accountants´ Perceptions of Changes in Regulation due to IFRS Adoption

FORTHCOMING IN JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING, AUDITING & TAXATION (JIAAT)

49 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Esther Ortiz Martínez

University of Murcia

Salvador Marín Hernández

University of Murcia

Marcos Antón Renart

University of Murcia - Campus de Espinardo

Date Written: January 31, 2022

Abstract

The adoption of IFRS in Spain by companies that are not included in the mandatory scope of the European Regulations has led to the reform of accounting standards. We ascertain the opinion of Spanish economist-accountants following this change, analyzing the time effect and the degree of understanding of new requirements. The results of four successive surveys are studied to analyze how the reform of the regulation is applied in practice. We conclude that the complexity encountered by economist-accountants when facing regulatory changes varies significantly over time, as does their initial understanding of it. Economist-Accountants´ perceptions change during the analyzed period and the different changes in the regulation. Professionals prefer the reform and the adaptation of the Spanish legal system to IFRS to the direct IFRS application in Spain. The explicit contribution of this paper is that the practical point of view, large efforts to prior training and new knowledge must be taken into account by the regulator. In addition, a long term perspective is required. The results can be a useful example for coping with changes related to accounting regulation in countries with similar characteristics.

Keywords: IFRS, economist-accountants, time, regulatory reform, Spain

Suggested Citation:

Ortiz Martínez, Esther and Marín Hernández, Salvador and Antón Renart, Marcos, Spanish Economist-Accountants´ Perceptions of Changes in Regulation due to IFRS Adoption (January 31, 2022). FORTHCOMING IN JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING, AUDITING & TAXATION (JIAAT), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4022054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
References Accountancy , Europe
How is the European accountancy profession organised? 2020 Update Posted: 2020
Accessed
Posted: 2021-09-20
P André , D Dionysia , I Tsalavoutas
Mandatory adoption of IFRS by EU listed firms and comparability: determinants and analysts' forecasts. Comptabilit´es et Innovation Posted: 2012-05
J L Arquero , S M Jiménez , J Laffarga
Utilidad percibida de la producción académica-contable. Opinión de los profesores universitarios y de los profesionales
Revista de Contabilidad , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 239 - 251 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
394
RANK
826,938
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies