Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of ESG Score on the Value Relevance of Fair Value Hierarchy: Evidence from European Banks

31 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2022 Last revised: 8 Mar 2022

Giuseppe Di Martino

Bari Aldo Moro University

Federica Miglietta

Università degli Studi di Bari “Aldo Moro” (UNIBA) - Department of Business Studies and Private Law

Valerio Potì

University College Dublin

Date Written: February 7, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, using hand-collected accounting data on 154 European banks for a period ranging from 2010 to 2018, we investigate the impact of banks’ ESG scores on the value-relevance of fair value hierarchy in financial instruments. Our findings are multi-faceted. On the one hand, banks that possess an ESG score are valued with a price to tangible book value (PTBV) multiple higher than non-covered banks and the presence of the ESG score is associated with lower (higher) value-relevance of Level 1 (Level 2 and 3) fair value. This is consistent with the view that the ESG score lowers information asymmetries and mitigates the opacity of lower levels of the FVH. On the other hand, the value relevance of Level 2 and 3 FVH levels decreases in the ESG score. This surprising finding casts doubt on common perceptions of the value assigned by stock markets to ESG performance measures, implying that stock market investors either do not treat the ESG score as a reliable measure of ESG performance, or do not associate positive ESG performance to greater corporate transparency and trustworthiness.

Keywords: Bank, CSR, ESG, fair value hierarchy, value relevance

JEL Classification: G21, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Di Martino, Giuseppe and Miglietta, Federica and Potì, Valerio, The Impact of ESG Score on the Value Relevance of Fair Value Hierarchy: Evidence from European Banks (February 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4028780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4028780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,493
RANK
162,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies