Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Government Subsidies Affect Analyst Forecast Accuracy?

43 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Yiyuan Sun

University of Manchester

Wei Jiang

Alliance Manchester Business School, University of Manchester

Cheng (Colin) Zeng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: February 28, 2022

Abstract

Government intervention in economic activities, through the provision of subsidies, is pervasive worldwide, yet little is known about how subsidies affect the perceptions of capital market participants. We focus on sell-side analysts as financial intermediaries and investigate the association between government subsidies and analyst forecast accuracy. Using a novel dataset from China, we find that government subsidies are associated with a higher level of analyst forecast accuracy, and the association is more pronounced for firms with more opaque information environments and for firms receiving greater negative publicity. Further analysis shows that the relationship between subsidies and forecast accuracy is stronger for subsidies that are more likely to be granted at the discretion of politicians. Our results suggest that subsidized firms tend to reduce political costs via improved transparency. Overall, our findings shed new light on the capital market consequences of government subsidies.

Keywords: Government subsidies; Analyst forecast; Political cost; Information transparency

JEL Classification: H25, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Yiyuan and Jiang, Wei and Zeng, Cheng, Do Government Subsidies Affect Analyst Forecast Accuracy? (February 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4045559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4045559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Franklin Allen , Qian , Jun , Meijun Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Aobdia , Daniel , Allison Koester , Reining Petacchi
Corporate subsidies and political connections: State-level evidence Posted: 2018
Bruce K Behn , Jong - Choi , Hag , Tony Kang
Audit Quality and Properties of Analyst Earnings Forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2008
Philipp Boeing
The allocation and effectiveness of China's R&D subsidies -Evidence from listed firms
Research Policy , volume 45 , issue 9 , p. 1774 - 1789 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,210
RANK
213,875
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies