Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts’ Foreign Ancestral Origins and Firms’ Information Environment

Wang, K.T., Luo, G. and Yu, L. (2022), Analysts’ Foreign Ancestral Origins and Firms’ Information Environment. China Accounting and Finance Review, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2022

Kun Tracy Wang

Australian National University - Research School of Accounting

Guqiang Luo

Australian National University (ANU)

Li Yu

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 9, 2022

Abstract

Using novel data on analysts’ foreign ancestral origins from more than 110 countries, we find that relative to analysts with common American surnames, analysts with common foreign surnames tend to have higher earnings forecast errors. The positive relation between analyst foreign surnames and earnings forecast errors is more likely to be observed for African-American analysts and analysts whose ancestry countries are geographically apart from the U.S. In contrast, we find that when analysts’ foreign countries of ancestry are aligned with that of the CEOs, analysts exhibit lower earnings forecast errors relative to analysts with common American surnames. More importantly, our results show that firms followed by more analysts with foreign surnames tend to exhibit higher earnings forecast errors. Taken together, our findings are consistent with the conjecture that geographical, social, and ethnical proximity between managers and analysts affect firms’ information environment.

Keywords: Analyst; Ancestry; Forecast error; Social network; Information Environment

JEL Classification: G10, G20, G30

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Kun Tracy and Luo, Guqiang and Yu, Li, Analysts’ Foreign Ancestral Origins and Firms’ Information Environment (March 9, 2022). Wang, K.T., Luo, G. and Yu, L. (2022), Analysts’ Foreign Ancestral Origins and Firms’ Information Environment. China Accounting and Finance Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4053409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
K R Ahern
Information networks: Evidence from illegal insider trading tips
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 125 , p. 26 - 47 Posted: 2017
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
C Autant-Bernard , P Billand , D Frachisse , N Massard
Social distance versus spatial distance in R&D cooperation: Empirical evidence from European collaboration choices in micro and nanotechnologies
Papers in Regional Science , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 519 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
518,107
1 Citations
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies