Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On Defining the Concept of Value Generation for Transfer Pricing in the 21st Century

21 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2022

Oliver Treidler

TP&C

Date Written: March 17, 2022

Abstract

This paper discusses the conceptual framework of delineation the concept of value creation in the context of international taxation. It is about discussing different approaches to facilitate an alignment of value creation and profit allocation. Thus, the paper is explicitly not discussing technical (accounting) issues relating to the implementation of Pillar 1. It might, however, illustrate that the recent developments of Pillar 1 (Amount A) have thoroughly neglected addressing the question of value creation (and not only for the digital economy) – therefore the paper aims to provide food for thought and re-focus on the discussion on value creation that dominated transfer pricing in 2017-2019.

Keywords: arm's length standard, formulary apportionment, transfer pricing, international taxation, value creation,

JEL Classification: H2, H26, K34, B12, B14, F53

Suggested Citation:

Treidler, Oliver, On Defining the Concept of Value Generation for Transfer Pricing in the 21st Century (March 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4060111 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4060111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Rupal Maheshwari
Are the Revenue Sourcing Rules of the Oecd's Pillar One Fulfilling the Objective of Taxing Value Creation?
Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 77 (2023), Issue 7, Pages 281-291 · Posted: 6 Nov 2024 · Last revised: 6 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
842
RANK
288,883
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies