Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Audit Partners’ Workload Compression on Audit Quality Across Europe

30 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2022

Qing Kovarik

Aarhus University

Date Written: March 28, 2022

Abstract

The effect of audit partners’ workload compression on audit quality has received extensive attention. Prior literature presents mixed results in different audit market settings such as the US, China, and Australia. But little is known in the European audit market. Under the same audit market setting, using different methodologies also leads to inconsistent results. For example, studies using the OLS regression might show contradictory findings with that using the partner fixed-effect model. To fill the evidence gap in the EU, we study the data from 16 European countries spanning the years 2010 through 2019. We first apply the OLS regression and partner fixed-effect model, and then we use the multilevel model to reconcile the inconsistent results due to different methodologies. We highlight the use of the multilevel model to address data dependence issues and contextualize the results from client level to partner level. Our aim is to test the association between EU audit partners’ workload compression and audit quality. Our findings suggest that higher workload compression is associated with longer audit report lag, more earnings manipulation, and a higher cost of capital. We hope to raise regulators’ awareness of the consequences of audit partners’ workload compression.

Keywords: Audit quality, Audit partners, multilevel model

Suggested Citation:

Kovarik, Qing, The Effect of Audit Partners’ Workload Compression on Audit Quality Across Europe (March 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4068999 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4068999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
J L Abernathy
An International Perspective on Audit Report Lag: A Synthesis of the Literature and Opportunities for Future Research
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , p. 100 - 127 Posted: 2017
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , C J Lin , R Petacchi
Capital market consequences of audit partner quality
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 6 , p. 2143 - 2176 Posted: 2015
M Azizkhani , G S Monroe , G Shailer
Audit partner tenure and cost of equity capital
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
RANK
349,147
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies