Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of IFRS on Infosys, the Indian IT Bellwether-Case for FY 2016

10 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022

Ameya Patil

MIT World Peace University

Jayant P. Bobde

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 28, 2022

Abstract

IFRS are the new global accounting standards and has made its way into India. As the country accept these standards, investors are curious whether change of accounting standards from Indian GAAP to IFRS will result in significant changes in Financial statement(Income Statement and Balance sheet) numbers. This paper makes an attempt to study the same for the Indian IT Bellwhether, Infosys Ltd., as a Case .The financial statements of Infosys with IFRS and Indian GAAP for 2016 have been compared. The results show that there have been no significant changes in Financial statement numbers when compared Indian GAAP figures and IFRS figures and that adoption of IFRS will not drastically alter the financial statement numbers in case of companies in Indian IT sector.

Keywords: IFRS, Indian GAAP, Accounting Standards, Financial Statements, Income Statement, Balance Sheet

Suggested Citation:

Patil, Ameya and Bobde, Jayant P., Impact of IFRS on Infosys, the Indian IT Bellwether-Case for FY 2016 (March 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4068917 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4068917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
833
RANK
409,562
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies