Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insurance: In or Out of the “Too Difficult” Box?

49 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2022

Martin F. Grace

University of Iowa - Department of Finance

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 30, 2022

Abstract

IFRS 17 requires a significant change to insurer accounting, and we look at some of the frictions resulting from its implementation. We make three points. First, since IFRS 17 is a principles-based standard, it will be costly to implement. Audit committees must become sophisticated users of the underlying models generating the reports. Second, we examine the effect the Sarbanes Oxley Act on U.S. public insurers and a similar law for private insurers to assess the costs of complying with new rules. We find evidence that these costs are not uniform in their incidence across the life and non-life insurance industries. Third, we conduct an event study of specific announcements regarding IFRS 17 promulgation and implementation. We find a negative sentiment for announcements concerning the implementation. However, we cannot identify a single specific rationale for the negative sentiment as it could be related to several factors. In sum, we find that there are many reasons to keep insurance accounting “IN” the IFRS and some reasons to keep it “OUT,” but the “too difficult-ness” is not likely due to the technical standard itself but other things that may reflect the ultimate benefits of the standard to investors.

Keywords: IFRS Insurance Accounting

JEL Classification: G22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Grace, Martin F. and Basu, Sudipta, Insurance: In or Out of the “Too Difficult” Box? (March 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4071072 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4071072
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 1968
J M Barrios
Staggeringly problematic: A primer on Staggered DiD for accounting researchers
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2021
K Borusyak , X Jaravel , J Spiess
Revisiting Event Study Designs: Robust and Efficient Estimation Posted: 2021
K Butts , J Gardner
Did2s: Two-Stage Difference-in-Differences Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
761
RANK
403,275
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies