Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asset Growth and Stock Returns in European Equity Markets: Implications of Investment and Accounting Distortions

Journal of Corporate Finance, April 2022, Vol. 73

Posted: 9 May 2022

Panagiotis Artikis

University of Piraeus

Lydia Diamantopoulou

University of Piraeus

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

John Sorros

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: April 3, 2022

Abstract

We study the effect of growth in firms’ balance sheets on stock returns by decomposing asset growth into two components, one that captures real investment growth and one that captures accounting distortions and/or reduced efficiency. We show that these components play significant and complementary roles in driving the asset growth anomaly in European equity markets. The effect of the real investment growth (accounting distortions and/or reduced efficiency) component on stock returns, is found stronger in countries with higher (lower) degree of market efficiency, weaker (stronger) barriers to arbitrage, stronger (weaker) corporate governance and less (more) managerial discretion over earnings.

Keywords: asset growth, stock returns, investment, accounting distortions

JEL Classification: G14, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Artikis, Panagiotis and Diamantopoulou, Lydia and Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A. and Sorros, John, Asset Growth and Stock Returns in European Equity Markets: Implications of Investment and Accounting Distortions (April 3, 2022). Journal of Corporate Finance, April 2022, Vol. 73, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4089884
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies