Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asymmetries in the Persistence and Pricing of Cash Flows: Evidence from the United Kingdom

Journal of Economic Asymmetries, 2019, Vol.19

Posted: 9 May 2022

Panagiotis Artikis

University of Piraeus

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: January 10, 2019

Abstract

Consistent with the implications of conditional conservatism, we show that the differential persistence of cash flows relative to that of accruals is higher across loss firms than profit firms. Further, we find that the positive relation of cash flows with future returns is more severe in loss years relative to profit years. The abnormal return earned from a hedge strategy on cash flows for loss firms is more than two times higher than the respective return for profit firms. Overall, we conclude that naïve fixation on earnings is a key factor in explaining the cash flow effect on future returns.

Keywords: cash flows, profitability, earnings fixation

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Artikis, Panagiotis and Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., Asymmetries in the Persistence and Pricing of Cash Flows: Evidence from the United Kingdom (January 10, 2019). Journal of Economic Asymmetries, 2019, Vol.19 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4089672
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
264
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies