Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Percent Accruals and the Accrual Anomaly: Evidence from the UK

Accounting Forum, 2020, Vol.44, pp. 287-310.

Posted: 9 May 2022

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: March 15, 2020

Abstract

Using the percent accrual measure proposed by Hazfalla et al. (2011), we empirically evaluate the predictions of earnings fixation hypothesis and limits to arbitrage hypothesis on the accrual anomaly in the U.K. stock market. We show a strong negative relation of percent accruals with future profitability and stock returns. We find that the effect of percent accruals on future earnings and stock price performance is stronger across loss firms relative to profit firms. Furthermore, we show that the effect of percent accruals on stock returns is more pronounced for micro stocks relative to small stocks, while it doesn’t occur across big stocks. Overall, we conclude that earnings fixation is a key factor in explaining the occurrence of the percent accrual anomaly, while limits to arbitrage are of great significance in explaining the persistence of the anomaly.

Keywords: percent accruals, earnings, stock returns, earnings fixation, limits to arbitrage

JEL Classification: G1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., Percent Accruals and the Accrual Anomaly: Evidence from the UK (March 15, 2020). Accounting Forum, 2020, Vol.44, pp. 287-310. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4089849
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
290
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies