Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Insights on the Asset Growth Anomaly: Evidence from Europe

European Journal of Finance, 2022, vol.28, pp. 1867-1891

Posted: 9 May 2022 Last revised: 27 Apr 2023

Panagiotis Artikis

University of Piraeus

Lydia Diamantopoulou

University of Piraeus

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: December 24, 2021

Abstract

The present paper provides insights about the well-documented asset growth anomaly using an integrated European stock market sample from 21 countries. We seek to assess whether the anomaly in Europe can be attributed to risk or mispricing. In doing so, we examine whether the asset growth effect on stock returns is dependent on the valuation signals contained in equity financing activities, and whether it is derived from firms with existent market expectation errors. Finally, we explicitly test whether asset growth is a priced risk factor using the common two-stage cross-sectional regression (2SCSR) methodology. Overall, our evidence suggests that the underlying origins of the asset growth anomaly in Europe at the aggregate level are to some degree consistent with a risk-based explanation.

Keywords: asset growth, stock returns, risk, mispricing

JEL Classification: G14, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Artikis, Panagiotis and Diamantopoulou, Lydia and Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A., New Insights on the Asset Growth Anomaly: Evidence from Europe (December 24, 2021). European Journal of Finance, 2022, vol.28, pp. 1867-1891, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4089865
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
373
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies