Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Holdings of Cryptocurrencies in the Slovak Republic: Comparative Analysis

Contemporary Economics, Vol. 16, No.1, pp. 16-31, 2022

16 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2023

Miriama Blahušiaková

University of Economics in Bratislava

Date Written: May 18, 2022

Abstract

Cryptocurrency has attracted more attention recently. With the rapid increase in popularity of cryptocurrencies´ transactions it is necessary to adopt a unified approach to this novel, 21st century phenomenon. Since 2009, when the first cryptocurrency Bitcoin was created, thousands of other cryptocurrencies have appeared. As the transactions with cryptocurrencies have increased, national and multinational jurisdictions started to deal with issues concerning taxation and accounting for the cryptocurrency. Multinational jurisdictions and professional institutions differ in their opinions about cryptocurrencies. There are opinions considering cryptocurrency a financial asset, a financial instrument, cash, cash equivalents, inventories or intangible asset. As there is no accounting standard within IFRS specifically addressing cryptocurrency, it is necessary to look at the existing IFRS and apply a principles-based approach. The aim of the paper is to compare the accounting of cryptocurrencies in Slovakia with the requirements and/or recommendations by other standards setters and authorities. Slovakia is selected as it is one of the first countries launching accounting regulation for cryptocurrency. The analysis and comparison are used as the main scientific methods in this study. The IFRS IC in June 2019 concluded that IAS 2 applies to cryptocurrencies when they are held for sale in the ordinary course of business. If IAS 2 is not applicable, holdings of cryptocurrencies should be accounted for under IAS 38. The Slovak Republic is applying different approach to holdings of cryptocurrency, the cryptocurrency is considered the short-term financial asset. Difference between Slovak and multinational solution is even in questions of
cryptocurrency's measurement.

Keywords: Cryptocurrency, virtual currency, accounting for, IFRS, intangible asset, inventories

JEL Classification: G23, K33, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Blahušiaková, Miriama, Accounting for Holdings of Cryptocurrencies in the Slovak Republic: Comparative Analysis (May 18, 2022). Contemporary Economics, Vol. 16, No.1, pp. 16-31, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4113186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
References References Abraham , M
Studying the patterns and longrun dynamics in cryptocurrency prices
Journal of Corporate Accounting & Finance , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 98 - 113 Posted: 2020
Accaglobal
Accounting for Cryptocurrencies Posted: 2019
C Albrecht , S Hawkins , K M Duffin
Legitimizing Bitcoin as a currency and store of value: Using discrete monetary units to consolidate value and drive market growth Posted: 2020
J Berengueres
Valuation of crypto-currency mining operations Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
571
RANK
534,865
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies