Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of IFRS Adoption on Financial Ratios: Evidence from Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka

Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021)

16 Pages Posted: 24 May 2022 Last revised: 2 Aug 2022

Rajapaksha R.A.S.

University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka

Kawshalya M.D.P.

University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka

Date Written: November 11, 2021

Abstract

The need of having a common set of financial reporting standards instead of setting up businesses restricted to one geographical boundary has become much needed to enable the users of financial statements to make consistent decisions with the emerging trend of developing global businesses around the world. In response to this, International Accounting Standard Board (IASB) introduced International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) which led Sri Lanka also to adopt IFRS compatible Financial Reporting Standards in Sri Lanka from year 2012. Accordingly, this study investigates the impact of IFRS adoption upon the key financial ratios of listed manufacturing sector companies in Sri Lanka. Data were collected for the period of eight years from 2008/2009 to 2015/2016 by using annual reports published on the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). The total sample period is divided into two-part as pre-IFRS and post IFRS adoption periods for comparison. The ratios which are selected for the analysis were current ratio, earning per share, debt to equity ratio and return on equity ratio. The findings of the study suggested that there is a significant difference between the ratios that were current and earning per share, calculated as per previous local accounting standards and the IFRS. The impact was not found to be significant for the debt-equity ratio and return on equity ratio. The IFRS adoption is more likely to exhibit a favorable impact on financial statements. This study adds new knowledge to the existing literature of IFRS adoption since the data used are more recent than most IFRS studies around the world. The present study focuses on the content of developing countries while most of the other studies have been carried out in the context of developed countries.

Keywords: Financial Ratios, IFRS Adoption, Listed Manufacturing Companies, Colombo Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

R.A.S., Rajapaksha and M.D.P., Kawshalya, The Impact of IFRS Adoption on Financial Ratios: Evidence from Listed Manufacturing Companies in Sri Lanka (November 11, 2021). Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Business & Information (ICBI 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117062 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4117062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
A Agca , R Aktas
First time application of IFRs and its impact on financial ratios: A study on Turkish listed firms. Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 5 , p. 99 - 112 Posted: 2007
R Ball
International financial reporting standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research, International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
H Ben Othman , A Kossentini
IFRS adoption strategies and theories of economic development: Effects on the development of emerging stock markets
J. Account. Emerg. Econ , volume 5 , p. 70 - 121 Posted: 2015
E L Black , A Maggina
The impact of IFRS on financial statement data in Greece
J. Account. Emerg. Econ , volume 6 , p. 69 - 90 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,096
RANK
207,517
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies