Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Global Accounting Standards Diffuse? An Analysis From the Lenses of Actor-Network Theory

60 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2022

Ana Caria

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Delfina Gomes

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Date Written: February 25, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the voluntary adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). It makes a case for the need to move beyond a purely rational behavior and structural conformity due to wider institutional pressure as well as the necessity to incorporate networks of actors, organizational diversity and practice variation into the analysis. Thus, this study aims to contribute to the broad understanding of how and why global standards like the IFRS diffuse, by examining the early and voluntary adoption of IFRS by a Portuguese company – Jerónimo Martins – that adopted IFRS voluntarily in 2000. For the purpose of this study, Actor-Network Theory (ANT), and particularly the concept of translation are useful to study the IFRS adoption as a process of actor-network building. The analysis shows that the adoption of IFRS was not a straightforward one, but rather involved several actors that faced particular challenges while responding to several interessement devices used to enroll them into the new accounting regime. The study highlights the need for further research focusing on the micro-processes surrounding IFRS adoption to better understand how accounting standards are made valuable in local and organizational contexts and the factors involved in their adoption.

Keywords: voluntary adoption, diffusion, IFRS, ANT, Portugal

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Caria, Ana and Gomes, Delfina, Why Global Accounting Standards Diffuse? An Analysis From the Lenses of Actor-Network Theory (February 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4121183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4121183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for 'harmonisation'of sustainability reporting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting Posted: 2021
T Ahrens , J F Dent
Accounting and organizations: Realizing the richness of field research
Journal of management accounting research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
H Al-Basteki
The voluntary adoption of international accounting standards by Bahraini corporations
Advances in International Accounting , volume 8 , p. 45 - 64 Posted: 1995
C N Albu , N Albu , D Alexander
When global accounting standards meet the local context-Insights from an emerging economy
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 489 - 510 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
585
RANK
580,215
1 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies