Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Motive Forces: How Accountants’ Distinctive Values Shape Their Judgements and Decisions

60 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2022

Paul E. Madsen

University of Florida

Kevin Munch

Kent State University - Department of Accounting; University of Florida

Marvin Nipper

Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Date Written: June 7, 2022

Abstract

Personal values are fundamental motivators that influence judgments and decisions, including decisions about which career to pursue. In study 1, we hypothesize that two kinds of values, called conservation values and self-enhancement values, are associated with the decision to join the accounting profession. Using data from 38 countries in the European Social Survey (ESS), we find support for both hypotheses. Because values are trans-situational motivators, we expect that our findings about accountants’ values will enable us to make novel, accurate predictions about accountants’ attitudes and behaviors in other decision domains. In study 2, we make values-based predictions about accountants’ views about diversity, views about green energy initiatives, their religiosity, and their altruism. Using ESS data, we find support for three of these four predictions. Together, our evidence suggests that accountants’ have distinctive values and that these values shape the judgments and decisions of accountants in predictable ways. We conclude by making five additional values-based predictions about accountants that we believe would be fruitful targets for future research.

Keywords: Accounting Profession; Human Values; Schwartz Values; Person/Environment Fit; Career Selection; European Social Survey

JEL Classification: M41, M42, A13, J24, J44

Suggested Citation:

Madsen, Paul E. and Munch, Kevin and Nipper, Marvin, Motive Forces: How Accountants’ Distinctive Values Shape Their Judgements and Decisions (June 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4130611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4130611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Economics and identity
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 115 , issue 3 , p. 715 - 753 Posted: 2000
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and schooling: Some lessons for the economics of education
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 1167 - 1201 Posted: 2002
J G Altonji
The demand for and return to education when education outcomes are uncertain
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 48 - 83 Posted: 1993
J D Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
916
RANK
439,313
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies