Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investors, Climate Disclosure, and Carbon Emissions (formerly titled "Why Do Institutional Investors Request Climate Related Disclosures?")

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

81 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2022 Last revised: 9 Jun 2023

Shira Cohen

San Diego State University

Igor Kadach

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Gaizka Ormazabal

University of Navarra, IESE Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Date Written: June 3, 2023

Abstract

Note: an earlier version of this paper has been circulated under the title “Why do Institutional Investors Request Climate Related Disclosures?”

Exploiting the unique features of the CDP, the world-leading platform of corporate climate risk disclosures, we study the relationship between institutional investors’ demand for climate-related information (as reflected in their CDP signatory status), firms’ decision to disclose this information, and corporate carbon emissions. We provide systematic international evidence that ownership by CDP signatories is positively associated with the probability of disclosing information to the CDP, and that such disclosure is associated with subsequent lower carbon emissions. We also observe that CDP signatories are more likely to engage with and divest from top emitters disclosing to the CDP. Overall, these results are consistent with the notion that investor demand for climate-related information results in greater corporate disclosure and contributes to firms’ decisions to lower future carbon emissions.

Keywords: Climate-related Disclosure, Shareholder Activism, Institutional Ownership, Greenwashing.

JEL Classification: G11, Q54, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Shira and Kadach, Igor and Ormazabal, Gaizka, Institutional Investors, Climate Disclosure, and Carbon Emissions (formerly titled "Why Do Institutional Investors Request Climate Related Disclosures?") (June 3, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4138869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
J. Financ. Econ , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
J Azar , M Duro , I Kadach , G Ormazabal
The Big Three and corporate carbon emissions around the world
J. Financ. Econ , volume 142 , issue 2 , p. 674 - 696 Posted: 2021
T Barko , M Cremers , L Renneboog
Shareholder engagement on environmental, social, and governance performance
J. Bus. Ethics , volume 180 , p. 777 - 812 Posted: 2022
M Barzuza , Q Curtis , D H Webber
Shareholder value (s): Index fund ESG activism and the new millennial corporate governance
South. Calif. Law Rev , volume 93 , p. 1243 - 1321 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,581
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,713
RANK
26,832
75 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies