Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Reporting Opacity on Trading Opacity: New Evidence from American Depositary Receipt Trades in Dark Pools

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 9 Mar 2023

Thomas J. Boulton

Miami University

Marcus V. Braga-Alves

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Bidisha Chakrabarty

Saint Louis University - Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business

Date Written: June 16, 2022

Abstract

Trading volume is increasingly shifting to dark venues, and the causes of this move are not well understood. We examine whether a firm’s reporting opacity affects its dark pool trading and provide robust evidence that (partly) explains this volume migration. Exploiting the exogenous variation in home-country reporting opacity in a sample of American depositary receipts (ADRs) and using multiple metrics for reporting opacity, we find that greater opacity associates with increased dark pool trading. This relation holds after controlling for firms’ information environments, country-specific governance issues, observable differences between ADRs and other securities that trade in dark pools (matched sample analysis), volume migration to dark pools during earnings announcements, informed trading in lit versus dark venues, ADR levels, IFRS reporting requirements, and the possible endogenous determination of home-country reporting opacity and dark pool volume. The positive relation is stronger for ADRs held by (quasi-indexing) institutions with low turnover and diversified holdings and weaker for ADRs favored by (transient) institutions that trade frequently and (dedicated) institutions that hold concentrated portfolios. Bid-ask spreads are greater for higher opacity ADRs that trade in dark pools, indicating that reporting opacity is associated with the negative effect of dark pool trading on market quality. Our findings help inform the current debate on off-exchange trading by showing how reporting regimes affect the trading venue choice.

Keywords: reporting opacity, dark pools, disclosure, earnings announcements, informed trading

Suggested Citation:

Boulton, Thomas J. and Braga-Alves, Marcus V. and Chakrabarty, Bidisha, The Effect of Reporting Opacity on Trading Opacity: New Evidence from American Depositary Receipt Trades in Dark Pools (June 16, 2022). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4144916
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
423
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies