Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Accrual-based and Real Earnings Management: Emerging Markets’ Perspective

Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2022

Dante Viana Jr.

Faculty of Economics, University of Algarve, Portugal

Isabel Lourenço

ISCTE Business School - ISCTE Business School

Ervin L. Black

Steed School of Accounting

Date Written: June 13, 2022

Abstract

This study analyzes the effect of the mandatory adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on the level of both accruals-based (AEM) and real earnings management (REM) in a comprehensive sample of firms from emerging markets. It also analyzes whether this effect differs depending on the nature/extent of IFRS adoption (full versus modified). Some previous studies predominantly made up of samples from developed countries suggest a substitution of AEM for REM in the post-IFRS period. We test whether this trade-off among the two earnings management strategies is also evident in emerging markets, based on a sample of 27,789 firm-year observations from 18 countries between 2000 and 2018. Our results suggest that IFRS adoption in emerging markets is associated with the replacement of REM by AEM, unlike previous overall evidence in developed countries where firms appear to do the opposite. Our results also show that this replacement is lower in the emerging markets fully applying IFRS, when compared to those applying a modified version of these international standards. Possibly due to the poor institutional environment of emerging markets, coupled with greater flexibility inherited of IFRS principles-based approach, we reiterate an imminent concern about IFRS encouraging substitution of REM for AEM in emerging countries, namely in those applying a modified version of IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS, earnings management, emerging markets

Suggested Citation:

Viana Jr., Dante and Lourenço, Isabel and Black, Ervin L., The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Accrual-based and Real Earnings Management: Emerging Markets’ Perspective (June 13, 2022). Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4152046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
A Ascioglu , S P Hegde , G V Krishnan , J B Mcdermott
Earnings management and market liquidity , volume 38 , p. 257 - 274 Posted: 2012
M Aguiar , G Gopinath
Emerging market business cycles: The cycle is the trend
Journal of Political Economy , volume 115 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 102 Posted: 2007
H Agyei-Boapeah , M Machokoto , J Amankwah-Amoah , T Tunyi , S Fosu
IFRS adoption and firm value: African evidence
Accounting Forum , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 238 - 261 Posted: 2020
E S S Alzoubi
Audit quality, debt financing, and earnings management: Evidence from Jordan
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 30 , p. 69 - 84 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
184,099
1 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies