Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Goodwill Impairment Test under IFRS: Objective, Effectiveness and Alternative Approaches

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Vol. 52, September 2023, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2023.100558

50 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2022 Last revised: 15 Jul 2023

Niclas Hellman

Stockholm School of Economics

Tomas Hjelström

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: July 1, 2022

Abstract

Stakeholders have questioned the effectiveness of the goodwill impairment-only approach, which was widely adopted in the early 2000s. Much empirical work has been conducted on the matter, but there is a need for more conceptual work. This paper applies goodwill-components theory to derive the theoretical objective of the goodwill impairment test and to define impairment effectiveness – a concept previously undefined but often referenced in the debate. Goodwill-components theory allows us to address the various components of goodwill instead of viewing accounting goodwill as homogeneous. Adopting this framework, we compare the current International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) model to two alternative impairment-only models, the pre-acquisition headroom (PH) model and the fair value (FV) model. We conclude that the PH model results in more effective impairment testing than the current IFRS model. Compared to the FV model, the PH model is more effective in the short run and less effective in the long run. Our analysis further identifies situations where the PH model is “over-effective”. The framework is also used to illustrate the effectiveness of the current IFRS model compared to a goodwill amortization model.

Keywords: Goodwill, Acquisition, Impairment, Impairment-test effectiveness, Pre-acquisition headroom, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hellman, Niclas and Hjelström, Tomas, The Goodwill Impairment Test under IFRS: Objective, Effectiveness and Alternative Approaches (July 1, 2022). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Vol. 52, September 2023, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2023.100558, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4157729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4157729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A Amel-Zadeh , M Glaum , T Sellhorn
Empirical goodwill research: Insights, issues, and implications for standard setting and future research
European Accounting Review , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2021
H Amiraslani , G E Iatridis , P F Pope
Accounting for Asset Impairment: A Test for IFRS Compliance across Europe. Centre for Financial Analysis and Reporting Research, CeFARR. ASBJ (Accounting Standard Board of Japan) Posted: 2013
J Christensen
Good analytical research
European Accounting Review , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 51 Posted: 2011
S Durocher , O Georgiou
Framing accounting for goodwill: Intractable controversies between users and standard setters. Critical Perspectives on Accounting
Press , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2021
Load more
1 Citations
Svitlana Labunska , Ľuboš Cibák , Mykola Sidak , Marharyta Sobakar
The role of internally generated goodwill in choosing areas and objects of investment
Investment Management and Financial Innovations , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 215 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,417
RANK
222,859
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies