Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship of Operating Segments (IFRS 8) and Profitability of Universal Banks in the Philippines

Journal of Algebraic Statistics, ISSN: 1309-3452, Volume 13, No. 3, 2022, p. 1006 - 1018

Posted: 28 Nov 2022 Last revised: 6 Dec 2022

Henry Rufino

Tarlac State University

Date Written: September 30, 2021

Abstract

The study explored the relationship between the operating segments (IFRS 8) and profitability of universal banks in the Philippines. Empirical data were collected from the published annual report or audited financial statements of the twelve universal banks from reporting period 2016 to 2019. The study utilized panel data regression analysis using univariate analysis of variance technique to measure the relationship between the reportable segments to return on asset (ROA) and earnings per share (EPS) of universal banks. The findings of the study revealed that only reportable segment revenue is significantly related to ROA. None of the reportable segment revenue, profit or loss, assets, and external revenue as result of overall test is significantly related to EPS. The results of the study showed that all operating segments, with average of four, are grouped according to the nature of products or services offered. The most disclosed segmental information are information about interest revenue & interest expense, depreciation and amortization, material non-cash items such as credit and impairment losses, income tax expense, measures of revenue, profit or loss, assets and liabilities, revenue from external customer and revenue from transactions with other operating segment of the same entity. Implications to business decisions were made.

Keywords: IFRS 8, Operating Segment, Reportable Segment, Profitability

Suggested Citation:

Rufino, Henry, Relationship of Operating Segments (IFRS 8) and Profitability of Universal Banks in the Philippines (September 30, 2021). Journal of Algebraic Statistics, ISSN: 1309-3452, Volume 13, No. 3, 2022, p. 1006 - 1018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4162216
 Not Available for Download
49 References
A Al-Harbi
The determinants of conventional banks profitability in developing and underdeveloped OIC countries
Finance and Administrative Science , volume 24 , issue 47 , p. 4 - 28 Posted: 2019
N Altaf
Impact Of Segment Reporting on Stock Market Performance
Journal of Business Management & Social Sciences Research (JBM&SSR) , volume 3 , issue 6 , p. 64 - 70 Posted: 2014
A Avlokulov
Return on Assets and Financial Soundness Analysis: Case Study of Grain Industry Companies in Uzbekistan
International Journal of Management Science and Business Administration , volume 4 , issue 6 , p. 52 - 56 Posted: 2018
R S Azzat
The segmental information disclosures in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8
Journal of Process Management -New Technologies, International , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 41 - 55 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
309
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies