Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Efficiency or Rational Investors? A Study on The Tehran Security Stock Exchange

16 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2022

Ahmadreza Ghasemi

Ashrafi Esfahani University

Date Written: February 17, 2022

Abstract

We experienced many crashes in the stock markets around the world. Maybe the important one happened in 1929 in the US market, but how we should inhibit these weak points? There are many types of research related to the reasons for the market crashes that had been done, but in this research, I want to consider market efficiency and make a new model to improve research trends by recommending two market prices for each company's share. Retail price for the natural person's (ordinary) investors and wholesale price for the legal person's (rich) investors.

I investigate the impact of natural person's investors, and legal person's investors on stock price crash risk to verify my new model and show how useful is to bring retail price into the stock market, The sample used in this study includes 144 companies for the period of April 2016 to March 2021 in the Tehran stock exchange, in this study I use Tehran stock exchange data about investors trading. I create a model to separate legal person's investors and natural person investors' effects on the market. Finally, I consider market efficiency and investigate the probable improvement in market efficiency by separating natural person's investor and legal person investor's transactions effects and examined whether this method helps to market efficiency or not?

As a result, is seen that separating legal person's market and natural person's market, decreases stock price crash risk and systematic risk. There is no statistical evidence of improvement in market efficiency in these two forms of the market, but in some of the companies' shares, the improvement had been seen. So, I can say that using this article idea would be beneficial for whole the investors, and economic growth because of the efficient absorption of monetary sources.

Keywords: Market efficiency, Stock Price Crash Risk, Natural person's Investor, Legal person's Investor

JEL Classification: K49

Suggested Citation:

Ghasemi, Ahmadreza, Market Efficiency or Rational Investors? A Study on The Tehran Security Stock Exchange (February 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4164879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4164879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
W Andrew , Craig Loa , Mackinlay
Stock Market Prices do not Follow Random Walks: Evidence from a Simple Specification Test
The influence of institutional investors on myopic R&D investment behavior, accounting review , volume 1 , p. 305 - 333 Posted: 1988
J Chen , H Hong , J Stein , C
Forecasting crashes, trading volume, past returns, and conditional skewness in stock prices
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 383 , issue 3 , p. 1575 - 1617 Posted: 1970-05
D Hirshleifer , K Hou , S H Teoh , Y Zhang
PP 297-331. Jensen, M. C. (1978). some anomalous evidence regarding market efficiency
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 38 , issue 2-3 , p. 95 - 101 Posted: 2004-12
M C Jensen , W H Meckling
Theory of the firm: Managerial behavior, agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 305 - 360 Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
491
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies