Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalize Me: Regulating Distributed Ledger Technology

56 Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law 437 (2023)

56 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2022 Last revised: 20 Sep 2025

Roee Sarel

Institute of Law and Economics, University of Hamburg

Hadar Yoana Jabotinsky

The Hadar Jabotinsky Center for Interdisciplinary Research of Financial Markets, Crises and Technology (HJC)

Israel Klein

Ariel University - Department of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: July 20, 2022

Abstract

Distributed Ledger Technology ("DLT") - the technology underlying cryptocurrencies - has been identified by many as a game-changer for data storage. Although DLT can solve acute problems of trust and coordination whenever entities (e.g., firms, traders, or even countries) rely on a shared database, it has mostly failed to reach mass adoption outside the context of cryptocurrencies.

A prime reason for this failure is the extreme state of regulation, which was largely absent for many years but is now pouring down via uncoordinated regulatory initiatives by different countries. Both of these extremes - under-regulation and over-regulation - are consistent with traditional concepts from law and economics. Specifically, whenever DLT implements a "public blockchain" - where there is no screening of who joins the network - both the technology and its regulation constitute what economists call "non-excludable goods". For these types of goods, two classical incentive problems emerge: (i) over-regulation, due to the "tragedy of the commons", and (ii) under-regulation, due to the "free-rider problem".

We argue that these problems are best solved using some form of global regulation. Comparing alternative paths to such regulation, including (i) centralized regulation, (ii) decentralized regulation, and (iii) international administrative law, we analyze how global regulation of DLT could be implemented using a mixture of 'on-chain' (embedded in the technology itself), and 'off-chain' measures.

Our Article is the first to analyze why global regulation of DLT makes sense from a law and economics perspective and is the first to provide concrete suggestions on how to implement such regulation.


Keywords: Distributed Ledger Technology, Blockchain, Global Regulation, Law and economics

JEL Classification: F01, F38, F42, F68, G18, K22, K24

Suggested Citation:

Sarel, Roee and Jabotinsky, Hadar Yoana and Klein, Israel, Globalize Me: Regulating Distributed Ledger Technology (July 20, 2022). 56 Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law 437 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4167978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4167978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
See generally: Yesha Yadav & Chris Brummer. Fintech and the Innovation Trilemma, 107 GEO
L. J , volume 235 Posted: 2018
Dan Awrey
Unbundling Banking, Money, and Payments, 11 GEO
L. J , volume 715 Posted: 2022
Kimberly Houser , & John , T Holden
Navigating the Non-Fungible Token
Carla Reyes
Creating Cryptolaw for the Uniform Commercial Code Posted: 2022
Load more
2 Citations
Rainer Alt , Max Gräser
Distributed ledger technology
Electronic Markets , volume 35 , issue 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Benedict Sheehy , John Hawkins , Juan Diaz-Granados
Legal Problems and Solutions in Stablecoins: A Multi-Disciplinary Approach Applied to Euro Stablecoins
Review of Law & Economics , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 85 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
RANK
168,175
2 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies