Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Link between Corporate Governance Mechanism and Stock Price Crash Risk Under the Complementary Role of IFRS Adoption in Pakistan

19 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2022

AON WAQAS BALOCH

Independent

Date Written: July 20, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: This research aims to explore the link between corporate governance mechanism and stock price crash risk under the complementary role of IFRS adoption in Pakistan.

Design/methodology/approach: Data has been extracted from the financial statements of 155 non-financial firms listed in PSX from 2007 to 2019 for the panel data analysis. An index for corporate governance mechanisms has been developed through PCA. IFRS is a dummy variable. Crash risk has been measured by down-to-up volatility (DUVOL) and negative skewness (NSKWN) of firms’ stock prices. This study applies the fixed effect-RSE (Driscoll and Kraay, 1998) regression technique to obtain the results for hypothesis testing.

Findings: This research explores a significant negative link between corporate governance mechanism and stock price crash risk under the complementary role of IFRS adoption in Pakistan.

Originality/value: To the best of the author’s knowledge, this is the first study that provides empirical evidence to the research literature by exploring a negative link between corporate governance mechanism and stock price crash risk under the complementary role of IFRS adoption in a developing country-Pakistan.

Keywords: Principal Component Analysis, Corporate Governance Mechanism, Stock Price Crash Risk, IFRS Adoption, Pakistan

JEL Classification: M10, M14, M20, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

BALOCH, AON WAQAS, Exploring the Link between Corporate Governance Mechanism and Stock Price Crash Risk Under the Complementary Role of IFRS Adoption in Pakistan (July 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4167778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4167778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
P C Andreou , C Antoniou , J Horton , C Louca
Corporate governance and firm-specific stock price crashes
European Financial Management , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 916 - 956 Posted: 2016
S Boubaker , H Mansali , H Rjiba
Large controlling shareholders and stock price synchronicity
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 40 , p. 80 - 96 Posted: 2014
N M Brennan , J Solomon
Corporate governance, accountability and mechanisms of accountability: An overview
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 885 - 906 Posted: 2008
Load more
1 Citations
AON WAQAS BALOCH
How Do Audit Quality and Mandatory IFRS Adoption Affect Stock Price Crash Risk in Pakistan?
13 Pages · Posted: 14 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 162
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
673
RANK
564,240
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies