Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Investor Interaction with Firm Information: A Discussion of Lee and Zhong (2022)

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

27 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022 Last revised: 11 Aug 2022

Elizabeth Blankespoor

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business; University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 20, 2022

Abstract

Investors are central to the incorporation of firm information in capital markets, yet it is challenging to observe the particular information they use and struggle with. Lee and Zhong (2022) use online investor interactions with Chinese public firms to document evidence that investors face significant processing costs. They find that when investor interactions occur, capital markets behave as if the information environment has improved, with increased trading activity, liquidity, and timely pricing of the quarter’s earnings in returns. My discussion highlights the contributions of Lee and Zhong’s findings to the processing cost, retail investor, and investor interactions literatures. I also describe empirical challenges faced by this and similar studies. I encourage using the details of interactions to disentangle the nature of processing costs and to increase support for causal conclusions more generally. Finally, I note several topics related to investor interaction that would benefit from further research.

Keywords: disclosure, investor interaction, information processing costs, technology

JEL Classification: M41, D83, G14, G15, G39

Suggested Citation:

Blankespoor, Elizabeth, Understanding Investor Interaction with Firm Information: A Discussion of Lee and Zhong (2022) (July 20, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4168334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4168334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
B M Barber , X Huang , T Odean , C Schwarz
Attention induced trading and returns: Evidence from Robinhood users
Journal of Finance Posted: 2022
E Blankespoor
Firm communication and investor response: A framework and discussion integrating social media. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 68 , p. 80 - 87 Posted: 2018
E Blankespoor
The impact of information processing costs on firm disclosure choice: Evidence from the XBRL mandate
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 57 , issue 4 , p. 919 - 967 Posted: 2019
E Blankespoor , E Dehaan , I Marinovic
Disclosure processing costs, investors' information choice, and equity market outcomes: A review
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 70 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,222
RANK
167,202
7 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies