Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Choice of GAAP: Evidence from the Group and Single Entity Accounts of UK Firms – A Machine Learning Approach

56 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2022

Irene Karamanou

University of Cyprus - Department of Public and Business Administration

Grace Pownall

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Rachna Prakash

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Maria Rykaczewski

Arizona State University

Date Written: July 17, 2022

Abstract

We examine firms’ choice of the extent of IFRS adoption in the mandatory IFRS-implementation period, defined with respect to reporting standards used in financial statements. We examine this issue using UK firms’ presentation of both group and single entity statements. We classify firms using IFRS for both as full adopters, firms using IFRS for group but not for parent-level statements as partial adopters, and firms using UK GAAP as non-adopters. We implement a Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) approach to select proxies for category-specific models of the extent of IFRS reporting, and compare those models across the three categories of firms. Models with between six and 22 variables (out of 42 candidates) provide excellent explanatory power for the models of choice between different reporting options. We also find that these models for partial adopters are more similar to those for full adopters than to those for non-adopters. Finally, using several proxies for stock price informativeness in a difference in differences framework, we find an increase in synchronicity for sample firms from pre- to post-2005, consistent with increased global market synchronicity after IFRS adoption. We find that non-adopters had larger increases in information quality than did either full or partial adopters, and that full adopters had larger increases in information quality than did partial adopters. These findings are consistent with firms choosing the extent of commitment to IFRS to satisfy investors’ information demands rather than managerial opportunism.

Keywords: IFRS adoption, Reporting Incentives, Label Adoption, Parent Company Reporting, Group Reporting, Financial Companies, Accounting in the UK

JEL Classification: M41, M48, B41

Suggested Citation:

Karamanou, Irene and Pownall, Grace and Prakash, Rachna and Rykaczewski, Maria, Choice of GAAP: Evidence from the Group and Single Entity Accounts of UK Firms – A Machine Learning Approach (July 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4172245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4172245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An Exploratory Study of the Valuation Properties of Cross-Listed Firms' IAS and U.S. GAAP Earnings and Book Values
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
A Ahrens , C B Hansen , M E Schaffer
lassopack: Model selection and prediction with regularized regression in Stata
The Stata Journal , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 176 - 235 Posted: 2020
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
Accounting Rev , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
M Barth , W Landsman , D Young , Z Zhuang
Relevance of Differences between Net Income based on IFRS and Domestic Standards for European Firms
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 304 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
764
RANK
524,740
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies