Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of XBRL adoption on financial reporting quality: A global evidence

36 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2022

Vincent Tawiah

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; Griffith University; University of Cape Coast; Dublin City University Business School

Hela Borgi

Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

Date Written: August 1, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: In this paper, we examine the effect of XBRL adoption on financial reporting quality at the country-level (developing and developed countries).
Design/methodology: We use data from 98 developed and developing countries between 2005-2018. We collected data from various sources such as the World Economic Forum, World Development Indicators, World Governance Indicators and XBRL website.
Finding: Our results show that XBRL is associated with an increased financial reporting quality. However, the relationship is stronger in developing countries than in developed countries. We also find that the results remain the same after accounting for years of XBRL experience and the effect of accounting globalisation. The results are consistent with the assumption that XBRL formatted financial statements improve information efficiency through increased searching efficiency, quality of display, and comparability. Our results are robust to alternative econometric modifications such as controlling for country, year effects and endogeneity.
Implications: Our results can potentially assist the XBRL promoters and regulators in expeditiously assessing the benefits of XBRL and advocating its adoption by many countries. Our findings offer more motivations for regulators around the world to mandate this new filing standard format.
Originality: This study contributes to the literature by providing empirical evidence on the consequences of XBRL at the country-level. The present study provides evidence on an important question of whether the XBRL, new information technology in the accounting field, can play a useful role in improving financial reporting.


Suggested Citation:

Tawiah, Vincent and Tawiah, Vincent and Borgi, Hela, Impact of XBRL adoption on financial reporting quality: A global evidence (August 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4177937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4177937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Ahmi , M H M Nasir
Examining the Trend of the Research on eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): A Bibliometric
International Journal of Innovation, Creativity and Change , volume 5 , issue 2 Posted: 2019
M Alles , M Piechocki
Will XBRL improve corporate governance? A framework for enhancing governance decision making using interactive data
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 91 - 108 Posted: 2012
A Apostolou , K Nanopoulos
Interactive financial reporting using XBRL: An overview of the global markets and Europe
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 262 - 272 Posted: 2009
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Load more
5 Citations
Asliddin Habibullaev
Applying XBRL, RegTech, and DLT to Strengthen Shareholders’ Rights in Uzbekistan
Legalis : Journal of Law Review , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 13 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Roslee Uyob , Ku Maisurah Ku Bahador , Ram Al Jaffri Saad
Do Incentives Matter in Persuading Companies to Embrace Advanced Reporting Standards Voluntarily?
Foresight and STI Governance , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 36 Posted: 2023
Crossref
N. Abhishek , Habeeb Ur Rahiman , Abhinandan Kulal , Ujwala Kambali , Velita Sibon Lobo , D. Bindu , M. S. Divyashree
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Finance
, volume 488 , p. 228 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Awni Rawashdeh , Mashael Bakhit , Saleh K. Al-Okdeh , Nidaa Alsous
Innovation, Technologies, and Business Management (ICTIM)
, p. 377 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,784
RANK
175,068
5 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies