Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Attributes, IFRS and Business Acquisitions: Evidence from Emerging- Market Multinationals’ Cross-Border Acquisitions

40 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2022 Last revised: 2 Feb 2023

Ekaete Efretuei

Liverpool Business School, Liverpool John Moores University

Rekha Rao-Nicholson

University of Essex

Di Mao

University of Essex

Date Written: August 8, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the association between the financial reporting regime of a target company
and the disclosure attributes of the acquiring firm’s annual reports. We examine pre- and postacquisition annual reports for emerging-market multinationals’ cross-border acquisitions deals,
focussing on the length and readability of acquirer’s disclosure. Based on a sample of 690 firmyear observations for 138 deals, the study finds that acquirers with targets from countries
applying International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) tend to disclose longer and less
readable financial reports. We further add to the literature using a decomposition of informative
and obfuscating components of narratives. We find that acquirers with target nation adopting
IFRS for domestic firms tend to exhibit report informative complexity while acquirers with
target nation requiring/permitting IFRS for foreign issuers exhibit both informative and
obfuscating complexity. This addition supports the management narrative obfuscation
hypothesis that textual attributes of disclosure are associated with incentives for transparent
disclosure even within the unique empirical setting where we consider two large developing
countries which have continued to dominate the global cross-border acquisitions scene. These
findings have economic implications given the recorded impact of complex narratives on
market participants

Keywords: cross-border acquisitions, International Financial Reporting Standards, financial reporting, transparency

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Efretuei, Ekaete and Rao-Nicholson, Rekha and Mao, Di, Disclosure Attributes, IFRS and Business Acquisitions: Evidence from Emerging- Market Multinationals’ Cross-Border Acquisitions (August 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4184660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4184660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
A Adhikari , M Bansal , A Kumar
IFRS convergence and accounting quality: India a case study
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 45 Posted: 2021
A Adhikari , M Bansal , A Kumar
IFRS convergence and accounting quality: India a case study Posted: 2021
O Akisik , M P Mangaliso
How IFRS influence the relationship between the types of FDI and economic growth: An empirical analysis on African countries
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 76 Posted: 2020
S Arora , Y Chauhan
Do earnings management practices define the readability of the financial reports in India? Journal of Public Affairs Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
650
RANK
436,942
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies