Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Designing International Public Sector Accounting Standards: An Analysis of Constituents’ Participation through Comment Letters

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 15 Aug 2022

Marco Bisogno

University of Salerno (Italy)

Francesca Manes-Rossi

Department of Economics, Management, Institutions

Mariafrancesca Sicilia

Independent

Date Written: August 10, 2022

Abstract

Harmonisation of public sector accounting is attracting increasing attention from scholars and practitioners. A focal component of this phenomenon is the setting of accounting standards, whose legitimacy is paramount to their application. As participation by constituents is considered fundamental for ensuring this legitimacy, in this study we focus on participation through comment letters in the due process. In particular, we explore the type of respondents, their geographical area, their agreement/disagreement with the documents prepared by the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB) and the issues of importance to them, through an analysis of the comment letters submitted for six projects launched over the period 2017–2020 by the IPSASB. Furthermore, we analyse some factors that may affect countries’ participation in the due process. The analysis enriches our understanding of the IPSASB’s due process and provides relevant insights for the growing research into accounting standard-setting.


Keywords: IPSASB due process; Public sector accounting standards; Standard-setting; Input legitimacy theory; Harmonisation

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Bisogno, Marco and Manes-Rossi, Francesca and Sicilia, Mariafrancesca, Designing International Public Sector Accounting Standards: An Analysis of Constituents’ Participation through Comment Letters (August 10, 2022). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4187142
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
180
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies