Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial statement comparability and the usefulness of earnings: Some Canadian evidence

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2022 Last revised: 3 Jul 2023

Shadi Farshadfar

Toronto Metropolitan University (formerly Ryerson University)

Laleh Samarbakhsh

Ryerson University - Ted Rogers School of Management

Yige Jiang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

In this study, we investigate whether financial statement comparability enhances the usefulness of earnings, specifically their relevance and faithful representation, as asserted in the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)’s conceptual framework. Thus far, researchers have documented various capital market benefits of comparability. However, the role of comparability in improving the usefulness of earnings has not yet been directly examined. Our study is motivated to address such a question using data from Canadian firms in the post-International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption period. The findings are consistent with our prediction and support the IASB’s claim, indicating that comparability enhances the decision-usefulness of earnings. These results are robust to several control factors, including industry membership, firm profitability, firm size and leverage.

Keywords: Financial statement comparability; Relevance; Faithful representation; The usefulness of earnings; Canada

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Farshadfar, Shadi and Samarbakhsh, Laleh and Jiang, Yige, Financial statement comparability and the usefulness of earnings: Some Canadian evidence. Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4189199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Accounting Standards in Canada: Future Directions Draft Strategic Plan
Accounting Standards Board (AcSB) Posted: 2005
Accounting Standards in Canada: New Directions 2006-2011 Strategic Plan Posted: 2006
Annual Report
Accounting Standards Board (AcSB) Posted: 2009
S P Bandyopadhyay , C Chen , A G Huang , R Jhar
Accounting conservatism and the temporal trends in current earnings' ability to predict future cash flows versus future earnings: Evidence on the trade-off between relevance and reliability
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 413 - 460 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
597
RANK
370,049
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies