Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
R&D Tax Incentive Regimes: A Comparison and Evaluation of Current Country Practices

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 2 ; p. 331-364

Posted: 23 Nov 2022

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Barbara Stage

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Daniela Steinbrenner

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 11, 2022

Abstract

This article evaluates qualitatively and quantitatively the current R&D tax incentive regimes in place in ten important foreign direct investment (FDI) countries (Belgium, China, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States) considering effects on location attractiveness, innovative activity and profit shifting. The environment of offered R&D tax incentives has been highly dynamic in very recent years. Furthermore, the importance of innovative activities is accentuated during an economic crisis. First, the authors qualitatively analyse the different design features of the existing R&D tax incentives in their sample countries. Second, the authors use forward-looking effective average tax rates to measure their effect on location attractiveness quantitatively. The authors’ main finding is that input and output-oriented R&D tax incentives continue to play an important role internationally and that the regimes in place have a considerable impact on forward-looking effective average tax rates, i.e., on countries’ tax attractiveness for R&D investments.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: R&D, tax incentive, foreign investment, tax rate

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Spengel, Christoph and Stage, Barbara and Steinbrenner, Daniela, R&D Tax Incentive Regimes: A Comparison and Evaluation of Current Country Practices (March 11, 2022). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 14 (2022), no. 2 ; p. 331-364 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4194587
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
425
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies