Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Target Difficulty, Psychological Capital and Work Engagement

European Accounting Review, forthcoming


50 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2022 Last revised: 3 Jan 2025

Makoto Kuroki

Yokohama City University

Yoshitaka Shirinashihama

Kanagawa University

Date Written: January 03, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates whether psychological capital (PsyCap) moderates the relationship between target difficulty and work engagement. PsyCap is an individual’s positive state of psychological development characterized by efficacy, optimism, hope, and resiliency. Based on goal setting theory, we expect that there is a positive relationship between the difficulty of employees’ targets and their work engagement. In this relationship, we propose a hypothesis that explores whether PsyCap as a core construct influences the relationship between target difficulty and work engagement. Data from 1,404 employees of a listed Japanese firm were analyzed to test the hypothesis. The results show that after controlling for economic uncertainty, past performance, and other factors (i.e., attributions of employees and branches), there is a positive relationship between the difficulty of employees’ targets and work engagement. Further, we find evidence that PsyCap strengthens the relationship between target difficulty and work engagement. This study contributes to management accounting research, especially from a psychological perspective, by providing new evidence for the moderating effect of PsyCap on the relationship between target difficulty and work engagement.

Keywords: target difficulty, work engagement, psychological capital, moderating effect, survey

Suggested Citation:

Kuroki, Makoto and Shirinashihama, Yoshitaka, Target Difficulty, Psychological Capital and Work Engagement (January 03, 2025). European Accounting Review, forthcoming
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4202922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4202922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
The role of performance measures in the intertemporal decisions of business unit managers
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 925 - 961 Posted: 2013
G M Alarcon , N A Bowling , S Khazon
Great expectations: A metaanalytic examination of optimism and hope
Personality and Individual Differences , volume 54 , issue 7 , p. 821 - 827 Posted: 2013
A A Albdour , I I Altarawneh
Employee engagement and organizational commitment: Evidence from Jordan
International Journal of Business , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 192 - 212 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,362
RANK
436,942
1 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies