Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Broad Analysis of United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board Approved Accounting Standards

17 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2003

Takiah Mohd Iskandar

National University of Malaysia (UKM) - School of Accounting

David C. Yang

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Norman Mohammed Saleh

National University of Malaysia (UKM) - School of Accounting

Terry Gregson

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Abstract

In response to rapid development in the economy, the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (MASB) was established in 1997. The board is responsible for developing accounting standards and continually improving the quality of external reporting in Malaysia. In the development process, constant reference is made to the work of national standard setters of other countries and the International Accounting Standards Committee. This paper highlights major similarities and differences between United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and Malaysia approved accounting standards, and offer some suggestions as to how Malaysia might effectively continue with the further development and restatement of its accounting standards. This study finds no significant difference in the basic accounting principles, assumptions and reporting format between U.S. GAAP and MASB standards. However, some differences in rules regarding specific accounting elements have been identified. Hence, further research is needed in order to understand differences and similarities between accounting standards of the two countries in greater detail.

Keywords: GAAP, Malaysian Accounting Standards

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M48

Suggested Citation:

Iskandar, Takiah Mohammed and Yang, David C. and Saleh, Norman Mohammed and Gregson, Terry, A Broad Analysis of United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board Approved Accounting Standards. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=420269 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.420269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
International Law Book Services, Islamic Banking Act
Financial Statements of Business Enterprises, Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts Posted: 1983
A Proposed Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements
MASB Discussion Paper , volume 1 Posted: 1999
Borrowing Costs, MASB Exposure Draft 19
Malaysian Accounting Standard Board Posted: 1999
Construction Contracts, MASB Standard , volume 7 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
805
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,959
RANK
70,438
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies