Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysing MNEs structure and activities using country-by-country reports. Evidence from the Italian dataset

Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 29, No. 2, 2022

24 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2022

Vera Santomartino

Department of Finance, Ministry of Economy and Finance

Barbara Bratta

Ministry of Economy and Finance, Italy

Paolo Acciari

Ministry of Economy and Finance, Italy

Date Written: August 29, 2022

Abstract

This paper is based on microdata originating in the first collection of country-by-country reporting (CbCR) – a new reporting tool to be filed by multinational enterprises (MNEs). It analyses the differences between CbCR and other widely used data sources of MNEs and presents the case of MNE activities in Italy. The CbCR dataset is used to understand the global distribution of MNE activities. Results show that foreign activities are mostly concentrated in high-income countries for all economic indicators. In low-income countries, MNEs activity appears to be concentrated in labour-intensive industries. Middle-income countries have a relatively higher importance in terms of tangible assets and employment opportunities than they do in terms of revenues and profits. Investment hubs have a relatively higher share in global MNEs profits than they do in global MNEs tangible assets and employment. The CbCR data can be useful for policymakers to obtain an indication on how a country is positioned in the global value chain (GVC) and its attractiveness for foreign companies.

Keywords: BEPS, corporate taxation, country-by-country reporting, GVC, multinational firms, offshoring

JEL Classification: F23, H25, H26, M16

Suggested Citation:

Santomartino, Vera and Bratta, Barbara and Acciari, Paolo, Analysing MNEs structure and activities using country-by-country reports. Evidence from the Italian dataset (August 29, 2022). Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 29, No. 2, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4203598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
386
RANK
864,731
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Production & Investment eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies