Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting and Assurance of Climate-related and Other Sustainability Information: A Review of Research and Practice

Australian Accounting Review, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2022

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

This literature review provides a summary of the key insights from recent studies that use an archival method. It covers two subject matters: climate-related information and other sustainability information. For each, the paper reviews and summarizes findings on current practices and the determinants and consequences of the reporting and assurance of climate-related and other sustainability information in both voluntary and mandatory regimes. The review identifies areas that are close to saturation and those that are currently under researched. It also highlights key trends in this evolving area for future research to explore.

Keywords: climate-related information; sustainability; reporting; assurance

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Shan, Reporting and Assurance of Climate-related and Other Sustainability Information: A Review of Research and Practice (August 31, 2022). Australian Accounting Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
544
RANK
549,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies