Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discounting and the Market Valuation of Defined Benefit Pensions

Queen Mary University London School of Economics and Finance Working Paper No. 932

59 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2022 Last revised: 16 Jan 2023

luca larcher

Queen Mary University of London - School of Economics and Finance

Francis Breedon

University of London, Queen Mary - School of Economics and Finance

Date Written: September 6, 2022

Abstract

We investigate how defined benefit pension schemes of FTSE firms are valued by the equity market, focusing on how future liabilities are discounted (since UK data allows us to estimate the duration of pension liabilities fairly accurately). We find that equity market valuation is consistent with discounting without allowing for credit risk. This differs from the approach used in published accounts for which IAS 19 (and SFAS No. 158, its US equivalent) allows for discounting with a corporate bond yield. The difference is significant, as credit risk free discounting would decrease the reported value of FTSE 100 firms by about 7%.

Keywords: Defined benefit pensions, IAS 19, Valuation, UK companies

JEL Classification: M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

larcher, luca and Breedon, Francis, Discounting and the Market Valuation of Defined Benefit Pensions (September 6, 2022). Queen Mary University London School of Economics and Finance Working Paper No. 932, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4211381 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4211381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
578
RANK
713,739
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies