Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Subjective Element in Tax Abuse and Aggressive Tax Planning

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 10 (2018), no. 2 ; p. 193-232

Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Paolo Piantavigna

University of Pavia - Department of Law

Date Written: March 15, 2018

Abstract

This article aims to examine the role of the subjective element in how certain transactions should be taxed according to the international tax system in cases of tax abuse and aggressive tax planning (ATP). This article also analyses the nature and the different scope of the taxpayer's subjective intent and: (i) the bona fide commercial reasons; (ii) the result of the transaction in terms of reduction (or elimination) of tax; and (iii) other possible outcomes that the taxpayer desired. In particular, this paper examines the meanings (and the weight accorded thereto) of the different terms of "intention", "purpose", "motive", "object" and "aim", as currently used by soft law instruments in international taxation (specifically by the OECD in the BEPS Final Reports and by the European Commission). The question is whether these terms are synonymous or if they actually have separate and distinct meanings in identifying the subject element in abusive practices and in ATP schemes. Since the taxpayer's intention is subjective in nature and is determined by factors that vary according to the individual case, this article attempts to identify the objective elements that both the OECD and EU law consider in finding abusive practices or ATP schemes. In this regard, this article also highlights the importance of evidence to prove the subjective element behind the arrangement or transaction undertaken.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: aggressive tax planning, tax avoidance, GAAR, ECJ case law, principal purpose test

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Piantavigna, Paolo, The Role of the Subjective Element in Tax Abuse and Aggressive Tax Planning (March 15, 2018). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 10 (2018), no. 2 ; p. 193-232, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4224398
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
318
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies