Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intangible-Related Profit Allocation within MNEs Based on Key DEMPE Functions : Selected Issues and Interaction with Pillar One and Pillar Two of the Digital Debate

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 6 ; 46 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Vikram Chand

University of Lausanne

Giovanni Lembo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 6, 2020

Abstract

The main objective of this contribution is to provide the authors' perspective on selected issues vis-à-vis the DEMPE approach. After an introduction to the DEMPE concept, the contribution analyses a scope-related question, that is, whether article 9 permits or restricts DEMPE-related structural adjustments on the basis of either actual conduct or the commercially irrational exception. To a certain extent, the application of these matters vis-à-vis profit allocation for intangible-related transactions under article 7 is also analysed. Thereafter, it analyses a conceptual issue pertaining to the role of the funder. In particular, it analyses whether the residual profits derived from intangible exploitation should be allocated only to the entity that performs key DEMPE functions, or whether part of such a residual should be allocated to the funder of the intangible, in the event that the latter is an entity different from the entity performing the DEMPE activities. On the practical side, the article initially discusses the challenges that arise for both taxpayers and tax administrations in implementing the DEMPE approach and thereafter proposes certain ways to mitigate those challenges. Finally, the article discusses the role of the DEMPE concept in the ongoing debate on the digitalization of the economy. In particular, it discusses the role of the DEMPE concept in a profit shifting, tax competition and Pillar Two context. Moreover, it examines the role of the DEMPE concept in determining the paying entity/surrender jurisdiction in the Pillar One discussion vis-à-vis Amount A. The article concludes with some key suggestions for taxpayers and policy makers. The contribution is based on recent case law from across the globe, the latest guidance issued by tax administrations and policymakers, the OECD blueprints for Pillar One and Pillar Two and the scholarly literature.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: transfer pricing, allocation of profits, intangibles, DEMPE, digital economy, Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), case law

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Chand, Vikram and Lembo, Giovanni, Intangible-Related Profit Allocation within MNEs Based on Key DEMPE Functions : Selected Issues and Interaction with Pillar One and Pillar Two of the Digital Debate (November 6, 2020). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 6 ; 46 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231105
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
475
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies