Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing the Group Interest in Transfer Pricing Analysis

In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 5 ; 31 p.

Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Ricardo Garcia Anton

Tilburg University - Tilburg University School of Economics and Management; Fiscal Institute Tilburg

Date Written: October 8, 2020

Abstract

The fact that the arm's length standard is anchored in the separate-entity principle yields a transfer pricing analysis that almost neglects the integrated economic reality of the group of companies. While tax law builds up this fiction of related companies acting as if they were stand-alone companies, corporate law has been more responsive to the economic reality of the group. Such integrated economic reality in groups of companies requires a specific response of tax law rather than simply ignoring the power dynamics under the separate legal entity principle. The need to reframe the arm's length standard to match the group dynamics has become urgent under the new profit allocation rules derived from the OECD Unified Approach, which allocates the deemed residual profit while taking into account the group as a whole. In light of the above, this article challenges the current arm's length standard, which completely sidesteps the power dynamics in the transfer pricing analysis for tax purposes. Reintroducing such power dynamics in the analysis leads to the notion of "group interest" coined in the field of business law. Group interest, premised on horizontal fairness and legal certainty, serves the author to reconsider the statement that related parties are equal to stand-alone companies. Enforcing group interest within the arm's length standard leads to the introduction of rebuttable presumptions, which are applied to three specific areas of transfer pricing: profit allocation to dependent agent enterprises, the commercial rationality test and group synergies. Group interest does not aim to replace the arm's length standard, but to readjust it to group power dynamics and, thus, ensure the endurance of the arm's length standard in the context of the digitalized economy.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: arm's length principle, transfer pricing, nexus, director, control, allocation of profits, agency PE

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Anton, Ricardo and Garcia Anton, Ricardo, Enhancing the Group Interest in Transfer Pricing Analysis (October 8, 2020). In: International Tax Studies (ITAXS). - Amsterdam. - Vol. 3 (2020), no. 5 ; 31 p., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4231101
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
232
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies