Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting Constituents’ Reflections on the Incorporation of Day-one Losses into IFRS 9

Selina Orthaus & Daniel Rugilo (2022) Revisiting Constituents’ Reflections on the Incorporation of Day-one Losses into IFRS 9, Accounting in Europe, DOI: 10.1080/17449480.2022.2130703

Posted: 15 Nov 2022

Selina Orthaus

University of Cologne

Daniel Rugilo

Department of Financial Accounting and Auditing, University Cologne

Date Written: November 06, 2022

Abstract

IFRS 9 requires the recognition of expected credit losses from the inception of a financial instrument, resulting in so-called day-one losses. The incorporation of day-one losses caused considerable controversy among the IASB members and its constituents. With a focus on the constituents’ positions and reasoning, this study portrays the discussions held in the comment letters received by the IASB during the drafting process. We find that most constituents initially rejected day-one losses as conceptually unsound and/or as inappropriately affecting investors’ and preparers’ decision-making. Despite these continuing concerns, the majority of constituents eventually accepted day-one losses as a pragmatic approximation of expected credit losses in the absence of superior alternatives. Considering the technical and political nature of standard setting, our analysis provides insights into the constituents’ assessment of departures from the Conceptual Framework and the constituents’ views on the standard setters’ responsibilities regarding financial stability after the financial crisis.

Keywords: Conceptual framework, day-one losses, expected credit loss model, financial stability, IFRS 9

JEL Classification: G01, G21, G23, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Orthaus, Selina and Rugilo, Daniel, Revisiting Constituents’ Reflections on the Incorporation of Day-one Losses into IFRS 9 (November 06, 2022). Selina Orthaus & Daniel Rugilo (2022) Revisiting Constituents’ Reflections on the Incorporation of Day-one Losses into IFRS 9, Accounting in Europe, DOI: 10.1080/17449480.2022.2130703 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4277348
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
245
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies