Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Analysis of European Integrated and Stand-Alone Sustainability Reports: Evidence From LDA

60 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2022 Last revised: 26 May 2023

Felipe Sick

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Controlling & Auditing

Date Written: April 23, 2022

Abstract

I employ an unsupervised learning method to investigate the thematic content of a large set of integrated and separate sustainability reports. Subject to a non-financial reporting mandate, companies in the EU are required to disclose their non-financial performance and are free to decide on the report format. I compare a set of 2,248 integrated and 3,567 stand-alone sustainability reports to identify and examine the top- ics that firms disclose when preparing non-financial information. Using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), a generative probabilistic model, I show that when text corpora are constructed of integrated reports, they are less likely to contain environmental and social topics compared to governance and financial topics. In addition, integrated reports show lower readability scores as measured by the Flesch-Kincaid Grade level. I argue that the differences in disclosure content and textual characteris- tics generally arise from firms aiming to address a specific audience and in the case of integrated reports primarily shareholders. The analysis is of interest to regulators and academics wishing to understand the in- tricacies that arise when firms choose a specific reporting format over another.

Keywords: sustainability reporting, topic modeling, ESG, European corporate reporting, integrated reporting

JEL Classification: M41, M14, Z18

Suggested Citation:

Sick, Felipe, A Comparative Analysis of European Integrated and Stand-Alone Sustainability Reports: Evidence From LDA (April 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4283860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4283860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
D Adhariani , E Du Toit
Readability of sustainability reports: evidence from Indonesia
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 621 - 636 Posted: 2020
L Alessandro , G Melloni , R Stacchezzini
Integrated reporting and narrative accountability: the role of preparers. Accounting, Auditing Accountability Journal Posted: 2018
L Alsumait , D Barbará , J E Gentle , C Domeniconi
Topic Significance Ranking of LDA Generative Models. ECML/PKDD Posted: 2009
D Atkins , T Rubin , M Steyvers , M Doeden , B Baucom , A Christensen
Topic Models: A Novel Method for Modeling Couple and Family Text Data
Journal of family psychology : JFP : journal of the Division of Family Psychology of the American Psychological Association (Division , volume 43 , p. 816 - 827 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
RANK
312,985
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies