Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance with the OECD Model Tax Convention: An Analysis of OECD and Non-Member Countries

11 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2022 Last revised: 10 Nov 2023

Markus Diller

University of Passau

Daniel Ehm

Passau University

Patrick Katzlmayr

University of Passau

Johannes Lorenz

University of Regensburg; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Date Written: December 12, 2022

Abstract

We investigate whether OECD countries are more likely to comply with the 2017 OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital (Model Convention) than are non-OECD members when designing bilateral Double Taxation Agreements (DTAs). Using Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques, we construct vector representations for 2,925 DTAs currently in force to measure their similarity to the OECD Model Convention. We find that treaties where both parties are OECD members are less likely to resemble the OECD Model Convention than treaties between non-OECD members. Overall, our study suggests that it is essential to take the textual design of DTAs into account when the influential factors behind bargaining positions and intentions in international tax policymaking are examined.

Keywords: double taxation agreement, international tax policy, OECD, tax competition

JEL Classification: K33, K34, F55

Suggested Citation:

Diller, Markus and Ehm, Daniel and Katzlmayr, Patrick and Lorenz, Johannes, Compliance with the OECD Model Tax Convention: An Analysis of OECD and Non-Member Countries (December 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4300375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4300375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Retrieved from IBFD database , p. 2023 - 2027 Posted: 2023
E Ash , O Marian
The Making of International Tax Law: Empirical Evidence from Tax Treaties Text
Florida Tax Review , volume 24 , p. 151 - 190 Posted: 2020
R S Avi-Yonah , K P Sauvant , L E Sachs
Double Tax Treaties: An Introduction
The Effect of Treaties on Foreign Direct Investment: Bilateral Investment Treaties, Double Taxation Treaties, and Investment Flows , p. 99 - 106 Posted: 2009
A M Bauer , K J Klassen
Assessing the Market Reaction to Unfavorable Tax Settlements: Using Textual Analysis to Categorize Ambiguous Tabulated Disclosures Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
896
RANK
401,129
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies