Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Competitive Pressure and Inversions By U.S. Multinational Enterprises

Journal of International Business Studies

Posted: 24 Dec 2022

Robinson Reyes-Peña

Florida International University

Arun Upadhyay

Florida International University (FIU)

Arun Kumaraswamy

Florida International University (FIU) - Department of Management & International Business

Date Written: December 14, 2022

Abstract

An inversion is a strategy used by multinational enterprises (MNEs) to avoid high corporate taxes in their home countries, by changing their domicile to foreign countries with lower taxes. While prior studies have focused primarily on firm-level and country-level determinants of inversions, we explore how an industry-level factor – foreign competitive pressure from industry rivals based in low-tax countries – has influenced U.S. MNEs’ propensity to pursue inversions. We frame inversions as an extreme MNE response to the institutional pressure of high corporate taxes in the United States. We hypothesize that competitive pressure from industry rivals based in low-tax countries leads to value erosion for U.S. MNEs and increases their propensity to resort to inversions. Our analyses of a longitudinal dataset of U.S. firms between 1982 and 2017 offer robust support for our hypotheses. Our study draws attention to the tax and competitive implications of location choice, as well as to the use of inversions by U.S. MNEs to arbitrage institutional differences (in this case, corporate tax rates). A key implication is that U.S. policy makers should seek a viable balance between the generation of adequate revenues from corporate taxes and the sustenance of U.S. MNEs’ global competitiveness and performance.

Keywords: Institutional theory, industry competitive dynamics, location choice, cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&As), tax inversions, tax planning/avoidance

JEL Classification: F23, F38, G28, H26

Suggested Citation:

Reyes-Peña, Robinson and Upadhyay, Arun and Kumaraswamy, Arun, Foreign Competitive Pressure and Inversions By U.S. Multinational Enterprises (December 14, 2022). Journal of International Business Studies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4304809
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies