Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double-Entry Bookkeeping For Non-Financial Performance, A Framework To Apply Lessons From Financial Accounting To Non-Financial Domains

42 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2023 Last revised: 1 Jul 2024

Sander Renes

Delft University of Technology, Faculty of Technology Policy and Management

Jilde Garst

Wageningen University and Research (WUR) - School of Social Sciences

Date Written: June 28, 2024

Abstract

To address both the marginalization of social and environmental data in accounting practice and the separation between the academic discourses on financial accounting and Social and Environmental Accounting, this paper analyses the underlying assumptions of the double-entry bookkeeping system and their relation to Social and Environmental Impact data. Our analysis identifies five axioms that shape double-entry bookkeeping and shows that the common valuation assumption in financial accounting is not required for double-entry bookkeeping. Adjusting this assumption allows the integration of Social and Environmental information in double-entry. This common framework bridges the divide between financial and non-financial information. It provides a common technical frame to better integrate existing knowledge in developing new accounting methods. We provide a proof of concept by applying our framework to company-level data on greenhouse gas emissions to show how the evaluation of performance changes for companies if we combine multiple performance dimensions into a single, consistent bottom-line number that generalizes net income.

Keywords: Bookkeeping system design, double-entry bookkeeping, ESG accounting, non-financial reporting, performance measurement

JEL Classification: Q56, M10, M41, A13, Q51

Suggested Citation:

Renes, Sander and Garst, Jilde, Double-Entry Bookkeeping For Non-Financial Performance, A Framework To Apply Lessons From Financial Accounting To Non-Financial Domains (June 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4336278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
D Arias , X Barriola , C R Loza Adaui
Corporate purpose and early disaster response: Providing evidence of dynamic materiality?
Business Strategy and the Environment Posted: 2024
D Astley , A Beanland , L Blower , J Tahtinen , J Guthrie
Creating alignment and harmonization in the ESG reporting landscape: 30+10 places to start
EMAN Conference on Biodiversity and Natural Capital Accounting Posted: 2019
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 1968
R Ball , P R Brown
Ball and Brown (1968): A Retrospective
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Jilde Garst , Jeroen Suijs , Karen Maas
The Reality of Materiality - Empirical evidence on the implementation of materiality assessments
54 Pages · Posted: 20 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 270
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,002
RANK
274,135
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies