Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Role of Accrual Accounting: International Evidence

Posted: 31 Jan 2023

Haidan Li

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Siqi Li

Santa Clara University

Date Written: January 31, 2023

Abstract

Under the accrual accounting model, the timing role of accruals leads to a negative correlation between accruals and cash flows. Our study investigates the time-series trend of the accrual timing role in a sample of 51 countries in the last three decades. Consistent with the time trend of U.S. firms documented in Bushman, Lerman, and Zhang (2016), we find a temporal decline in the magnitude of the correlation between accruals and cash flows in our non-U.S. sample over 1991-2019. This decline is primarily caused by increases in loss firms and operation volatility. Several accounting and economic factors, such as the use of accrual accounting, discretionary accruals, matching between revenues and expenses, IFRS adoption, and accounting connectedness are positively associated with the strength of the accrual-cash flow relation and therefore decelerate the decline of the accrual timing role. Additional analysis suggests that the decline in accrual timing over time is present regardless of a country’s economic growth, legal tradition or institutions, and the extent of the use of accrual accounting.

Keywords: accrual accounting; earnings quality; international accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Haidan and Li, Siqi, The Changing Role of Accrual Accounting: International Evidence (January 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4343586
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
586
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies