Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are We Moving Towards Principles-Based Accounting Standards: Evidence from Four East Asian Countries

39 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2023

Eliza Fatima

Universitas Indonesia

Sylvia Siregar

Universitas Indonesia Kampus Baru UI Depok

Ratna Wardhani

Universitas Indonesia Kampus Baru UI Depok

Etty Wulandari

Otoritas Jasa Keuangan

Date Written: January 13, 2017

Abstract

The objective of this study is to examine the level of rules-based characteristics in the national accounting standards in the periods prior to and after the IFRS convergence and determine whether national accounting standards are moving towards relatively more principles-based following the IFRS convergence. Since IFRS is directed towards a global principles-based standard, we predict that national accounting standards of adopting countries are also moving towards relatively more principles-based standards. We test this prediction by performing content analysis on national accounting standards of Indonesia, Malaysia, Hong Kong, and Singapore and examine the level of the following rules-based characteristics contained in each standard: numerical threshold, scope exception, words, and interpretation. This study finds that the number of exceptions, words, and interpretation of sample countries’ standards increases significantly while the number of numerical threshold decreases significantly during the sample period. Thus, this study concludes that national standards have been able to minimize the use of numerical threshold as criteria for selecting suitable accounting treatment. National standards, on the other hand, rely more and more on explanations, illustrative examples, and application/ implementation guidance to help preparers and auditors in determining the appropriate method for recognition, measurement, and presentation in the financial statements. This paper informs international and national standard setters about the shift in the component of rules-based characteristics in the national accounting standards and its potential impact on preparers, auditors as well as the enforcement agency.

Keywords: IFRS, Principles-based Accounting Standards, Rules-based Characteristics

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Fatima, Eliza and Siregar, Sylvia and Wardhani, Ratna and Wulandari, Etty, Are We Moving Towards Principles-Based Accounting Standards: Evidence from Four East Asian Countries (January 13, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4344738 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4344738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
566
RANK
812,770
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies