Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Opportunities and Challenges to the Corporate Sectors in India for the Implementation of IFRS (Ind-As)

28 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2023

Rajath B S

School of Commerce & Management Studies, Dayananda Sagar University

Dr. Devarajappa S

Department of Studies and Research in Commerce, Tumkur University

Date Written: February 9, 2023

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is a common accounting language developed by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to provide a common language for business transactions and financial reporting. The use of IFRS is aimed at improving the comparability, transparency, and understandability of financial information across the world (IASB, 2021). The goal of IFRS is to create accountability for all stakeholders of a company and serve society with reliable financial statements (Deloitte, 2021). The IFRS standards help in providing a level playing field for companies operating in different countries and enable easy comparison of financial information (Financial Times, 2021). The adoption of IFRS by organizations worldwide has been instrumental in improving the quality and consistency of financial reporting (KPMG, 2021).
The main objective of this study is to analyze the opportunities and challenges posed by the implementation of Ind-AS in India. The study aims to provide a comprehensive understanding of the impact of Ind-AS on the Indian corporate sector by exploring the various opportunities and challenges associated with its implementation. The study has provided some valuable insights into the preparedness of companies to comply with Ind-AS and the support provided by the regulatory authorities.

The researcher has used the quota sampling method by collecting response from junior level, middle level, and senior level management of selected companies. A sample size of 141 companies was chosen for the existing study.

The opinion on opportunities to corporate sectors in implementing IFRS and challenges faced by corporate sectors in implementing IFRS is analyzed using a frequency table. One sample t-test is applied to find whether companies have more opportunities and face challenges after implementing IFRS.

Keywords: Opportunities, Challenges, Corporate sectors, India, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

B S, Rajath and S, Dr. Devarajappa, A Study on Opportunities and Challenges to the Corporate Sectors in India for the Implementation of IFRS (Ind-As) (February 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4352794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4352794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,339
RANK
224,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Political Economy: Investment & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies