Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Deep is your Bath? Cross-Country Differences in Earnings Management Following CEO Turnovers

46 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2023 Last revised: 6 Sep 2023

Martin Glaum

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Niklas Meyer

VU University Amsterdam

Date Written: August 22, 2023

Abstract

This study documents that big bath accounting following CEO turnovers is pervasive worldwide and shows that the extent to which CEOs engage in big bath accounting is associated with the degree of discretion they have available in their respective countries. Our analysis is based on a new country-level measure for managerial discretion derived from a questionnaire survey with more than 500 strategy consultants from 35 countries. In addition, we find that newly incoming outsider CEOs and CEOs following non-routine or performance-induced turnovers engage in more earnings management than other incoming CEOs. Lastly, we find that big bath accounting following CEO turnovers is achieved through the management of working capital accruals, provisions, and impairment items. In all of these more detailed analyses, the level of negative discretionary accruals is associated with the discretion available to CEOs in the respective countries. Additional findings reveal no association between legal-based investor protection measures and the extent to which CEOs engage in big bath accounting across countries, presumably because the legal regulations underlying these measures are not relevant in CEO turnover situations and therefore do not constrain newly incoming CEOs. In contrast, our measure is not limited to legal aspects of investor protection but reflects the multidimensionality of managerial decision-making.

Keywords: Managerial Discretion, CEO Turnover, Earnings Management, Discretionary Accruals, Cross-country Differences; Survey-based Measure

Suggested Citation:

Glaum, Martin and Landsman, Wayne R. and Meyer, Niklas, How Deep is your Bath? Cross-Country Differences in Earnings Management Following CEO Turnovers (August 22, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4353096 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4353096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between US and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences. The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
K A Bollen , R H Hoyle
Latent variables in Structural Equation Modeling
Handbook of Structural Equation Modeling , p. 56 - 67 Posted: 2012
T A Brown , D C Burgstahler , L Hail , C Leuz
The importance of reporting incentives: Earnings management in European private and public firms
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 5 , p. 983 - 1016 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
219,016
4 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies