Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Need for Harmonization of International Accounting Standards

13 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2023

Sa'eed Hassan Mohamed

Jigjiga University

Date Written: January 13, 2023

Abstract

Accounting is simply the language of business; like any other field of knowledge, it has its own rules, regulations, and standards, which differ from region to region, country to country, and economy to economy. Having single, universal standards is the dream of many accounting practitioners, but we are still a long way from achieving it. Harmonization is the process of increasing the level of agreement between accounting standards. This study seeks to describe the necessity for and obstacles to international financial standard harmonization. After reading papers, journals, and books, the researcher conducted a literature review to obtain a deeper understanding of the issue and provide a more comprehensive picture of the topic of the study as a whole.

Keywords: Harmonization, Accounting standards

Suggested Citation:

Mohamed, Sa'eed Hassan, Need for Harmonization of International Accounting Standards (January 13, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4356970 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4356970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
827
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,079
RANK
68,017
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies