Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Culture Affects Use of Information Technology

How Culture Affects the Use of Information Technology. Accounting Forum (UK), 27(1), 2003: 84-109

37 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2023

Sharon K. Johns

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Carolyn Strand Norman

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

Multinational enterprises (MNEs) must be able to communicate and process data efficiently and effectively throughout the firm. The use of information technology is often affected by the various cultures in which MNEs operate. Technological advances have altered the methods by which MNEs conduct both their domestic and international operations. Advances such as e-business, information security, and electronic financial reporting are among the most significant technological changes facing accountants. As accountants confront and resolve these challenges, they will need to consider the effects of culture on implementation and use of technology. The purpose of this study was to examine differences in cultural and organizational environments of MNEs. Based on these cultural differences, we formed and tested hypotheses regarding the utilization of information technology by accountants. The findings indicate that impediments to international data flow are significantly related to culture.

Keywords: culture, information technology, international business

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Johns, Sharon K. and Smith, Murphy and Norman, Carolyn Strand, How Culture Affects Use of Information Technology ( 2003). How Culture Affects the Use of Information Technology. Accounting Forum (UK), 27(1), 2003: 84-109, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4357048 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4357048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
656
RANK
425,064
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies