Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of UK Pension Accounting Rule Change on Pension Curtailment Decisions

38 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2003

Paul J. M. Klumpes

Aalborg University Business School

Yong Li

King's College London

Mark Whittington

Warwick Business School

Date Written: February 18, 2007

Abstract

Both international and US accounting pension rules are changing to a market value approach. This study develops competing hypotheses to explain whether the decisions by UK firms to curtail pension arrangements during the period of an extended adoption period of similar new pension accounting rules were interrelated with the managerial discretion over the timing of pension discount rate assumptions. We predict that UK firms exploited the extended adoption period of the new standard by switching their expected rate of return on pension assets assumptions (ERRs) in order to ameliorate the mismatching of assets and liabilities. Consistent with these predictions, we find that UK firms' pension curtailment decisions are associated with their discretion over reported ERRs, effectively a risk management technique. This finding holds even after controlling for alternative explanations for pension termination decisions, based on traditional integration and separation theories concerning the ownership of pension fund surpluses or deficits. The implications of these findings need to be considered by other accounting jurisdictions as they update their accounting standards.

Keywords: actuarial funding method, pension accounting

JEL Classification: M41, G32, J53

Suggested Citation:

Klumpes, Paul J.M. and Li, Yong and Whittington, Mark, The Impact of UK Pension Accounting Rule Change on Pension Curtailment Decisions (February 18, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=436951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.436951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , J C Mckeown
Understanding accounting changes in an efficient market: Evidence of differential reaction
The Accounting Review , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 851 - 868 Posted: 1978
Accounting Standards Board
Posted: 2000
Accounting for the Cost of Pensions
SSAP , volume 24 Posted: 1988
M J Alderson , K C Chen
Excess asset reversions and shareholder wealth
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 225 - 241 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
614
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,622
RANK
100,193
2 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Administrative Costs in Public and Private Retirement Systems

By Olivia S. Mitchell

"Public Sector Pension Governance and Performance"

By Olivia S. Mitchell and Ping Lung Hsin

Public Pension Governance, Funding, and Performance: A Longitudinal Appraisal

By Olivia S. Mitchell and Tongxuan Yang

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies