Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Drives the Consequences of Intentional Misstatements? Evidence from Rating Analysts’ Reactions

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 44 (1/2), 295–333, 2017

ESCP Business School Research Paper

Posted: 8 Mar 2023

Martin Bierey

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting and Audit

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: October 18, 2016

Abstract

This paper aims to identify the mechanisms through which intentional misstatements adversely affect firms by analyzing rating analysts’ reaction to misstatements. In order to identify the mechanisms through which the misstatement affects firms’ credit ratings, we analyze the content of rating reports. Rating analysts are concerned about seven different mechanisms. They are most concerned about misstatement-related violations of debt covenants that increase a firm’s liquidity risk. We find that, subsequent to an intentional misstatement becoming publicly known, credit ratings of misreporting firms are adversely affected for up to seven years. The adverse impact of an intentional misstatement on a firm’s credit rating is most pronounced in cases in which rating analysts mention concerns about misstatement-related violations of covenants. Our results suggest that these covenant violations are the most severe mechanism through which misstatements adversely affect firms’ creditworthiness.

Keywords: credit ratings, misstatements, restatements, liquidity risk, debt covenants, consequences of misreporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G24

Suggested Citation:

Bierey, Martin and Schmidt, Martin, What Drives the Consequences of Intentional Misstatements? Evidence from Rating Analysts’ Reactions (October 18, 2016). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, 44 (1/2), 295–333, 2017, ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4377971
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
260
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies