Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deviations from the Mandatory Adoption of IFRS in Europe? Why Non-Adoption Does Not Mean Non-Compliance

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2023

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Christian Stadler

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: March 1, 2023

Abstract

Using Worldscope data, Pownall and Wieczynska (2018) show that there was extensive non-adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by European listed firms in 2005 to 2012. They also suggest that much of this non-adoption is illegal. This would constitute a serious failing by European firms, auditors and regulators. However, in this note we show that there is no non-compliance with mandatory requirements to use IFRS in Germany and the UK in various years. We also find no non-compliance in Austria and Portugal, two countries with less highly regarded enforcement. The reasons for legitimate non-adoption vary by country and by year. Our analysis is based on hand-collected data and it documents that the Worldscope database contains many errors in various fields. Therefore, we provide researchers with a hand-collected database for German and UK firms for the period 2005 to 2020, which can be used to supplement Worldscope. The database includes information on country of incorporation, whether consolidated financial statements are prepared, the accounting standards applied, and whether the firm is listed on an EU-regulated market. We use the database to provide some evidence on voluntary adoption of IFRS.

Keywords: Adoption of IFRS, Compliance with IFRS, EU-regulated markets, Worldscope, database

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nobes, Christopher William and Stadler, Christian, Deviations from the Mandatory Adoption of IFRS in Europe? Why Non-Adoption Does Not Mean Non-Compliance (March 1, 2023). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4379845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4379845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
711
RANK
493,078
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies