Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Comparability in US Firms Issuing Debt in the US Primary Market

The paper has been accepted for publication in The British Accounting Review

55 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023 Last revised: 26 Aug 2025

Paula Hill

University of Bristol

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Shuo Wang

University of Edinburgh

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 26, 2025

Abstract

We propose a method of measuring the comparability of reported accounting numbers from the perspective of creditors. Our measure reflects the relationship between market variables related to default probabilities and key accounting numbers of interest to lenders. We demonstrate that our measure captures the mapping between the market variables and the accounting system and that the values are consistent with expected differences in comparability in a range of tests and settings. We employ this measure to determine the impact of comparability in the US primary bond market and find that it has a negative and significant relationship with the spread of credit rating assessments of new bond issues. We also show that new bond issues of firms with superior comparability have better credit ratings and reduced bond yields, ceteris paribus. We find that the benefits of our lender-focused, balance-sheet-based comparability measure to the public bond market are robust to controlling for the earnings-based financial statement comparability measure of De Franco, Kothari, & Verdi (2011), and independent of economic similarities between firm pairs. Our findings are commensurate with comparability reducing the information uncertainty surrounding credit risk assessments derived from a firm’s financial information.

Keywords: Financial statement comparability, Debt market, Credit ratings disagreement, Bond spread

JEL Classification: G24, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hill, Paula and Lobo, Gerald J. and Wang, Shuo, Financial Reporting Comparability in US Firms Issuing Debt in the US Primary Market (August 26, 2025). The paper has been accepted for publication in The British Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4382217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4382217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
688
RANK
444,235
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies