Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Tower of Babel: Language and the Translation of International Accounting Standards

57 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2023

Emily Shafron

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 20, 2023

Abstract

I assess whether translations of IFRS published by the IASB are effective at improving financial statement comparability for non-English-speaking firms. I estimate how comparable non-English-speaking firms are to (1) matched English-speaking firms, and (2) other non-English-speaking firms that speak a language that differs from the focal firm. Using stacked OLS estimation, which takes into account the staggered issuance of translations into new languages, I find that translations are associated with significant improvements in both measures of comparability, suggesting that translations are effective at helping non-English-speaking firms account for equivalent economic activities similar to other English- and non-English-speaking firms that follow IFRS. I also find evidence that translations are more effective at improving comparability among non-English-speaking firms as the distance between the translated language and English (linguistic distance) increases. In cross-sectional analyses, I find that translations may be more effective when a country’s governance mechanisms are low, its local GAAP is further from IFRS, and when the non-English-speaking firm is small. Overall, my analyses suggest that translations have a measurably positive economic effect on firms domiciled in non-English-speaking countries, providing some of the first empirical evidence that translations published by the IASB are meeting their stated objectives.

Keywords: IFRS, translation, financial statement comparability, linguistic distance, language barriers

Suggested Citation:

Shafron, Emily, The Accounting Tower of Babel: Language and the Translation of International Accounting Standards (March 20, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4394442 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4394442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
RANK
381,120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies