Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Economic Policy Uncertainty and Properties of Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts

54 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2023

Cao Hoang Anh Le

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Yaowen Shan

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: March 30, 2023

Abstract

We investigate the extent to which international and domestic economic policy uncertainty (EPU) impacts analysts’ earnings forecasts for Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) listed firms. Over a twenty-year period, we demonstrate that EPU is positively associated with analyst coverage, the size of forecast errors, as well as the extent of forecast dispersion. Consistent with Australia being a relatively small but open economy, we show that this EPU effect extends beyond domestic EPU to include foreign EPU, most notably Chinese and United States EPU. Additional analysis shows that the association between EPU and both forecast accuracy and dispersion is stronger for firms in the resources and mining industries, and for longer forecast horizons. Our results are consistent with heightened EPU being associated with a decline in firms’ information environment, as well as a reduction in the quality of information provided by information intermediaries such as sell-side analysts.

Keywords: Financial analysts, earnings forecast, economic policy uncertainty

JEL Classification: G14, G17, G18, G38

Suggested Citation:

Le, Cao Hoang Anh and Shan, Yaowen and Taylor, Stephen L., International Economic Policy Uncertainty and Properties of Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts (March 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4404964 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4404964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
890
RANK
394,952
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies