Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of External Reviews in the Corporate Green Bond Process

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-33

65 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2023 Last revised: 28 May 2025

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Florian Eugster

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing; Swiss Finance Institute

Anna Husmann

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing

Date Written: April 15, 2023

Abstract

We examine the role of external reviews during the two main phases of the corporate green bond process: pre- and at issuance (Phase 1) and post-issuance (Phase 2). For Phase 1, we find “high environmental performers” are more likely to obtain a secondparty opinion or certification from ESG specialists rather than rating agencies or other providers, with the specialists generally having a more technical approach. This is consistent with auditing literature that shows companies with higher-quality sustainability reports are assured by auditors with technical competence. Interviews with practitioners confirm different benefits related to engaging “generalists” (such as rating agencies or Big-4 auditors) versus “ESG specialists” in the green bond context. Further analyses reveal that the likelihood of obtaining external reviews increases for “high environmental performers” in common-law countries and Europe but for “poor environmental performers” in Asian countries. For Phase 2, we use a self-developed disclosure index validated by automated text analyses and find that green bond reports with external reviews exhibit higher disclosure quality in general but not for items on which preparers’ judgment is more subjective, which makes the items harder to verify. Our results suggest the monitoring role of external reviews in the green bond process varies between the two phases and is shaped by significant differences in the types of providers, as well as by region.

Keywords: Green Bonds, External Review, Assurance, Disclosure Quality

JEL Classification: G23, M14, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Dinh, Tami and Eugster, Florian and Husmann, Anna, The Role of External Reviews in the Corporate Green Bond Process (April 15, 2023). Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 23-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4419454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4419454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
E Allman , B Lock
External reviews and green bond credibility
Journal of Climate Finance , volume 7 Posted: 2024
V Athanasakou , F Eugster , T Schleicher , M Walker
Annual Report Narratives and the Cost of Equity Capital: U.K. Evidence of a U-shaped Relation
European Accounting Review , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 54 Posted: 2020
A Avadanei
European corporate bond market integration: lessons from EMU. Munich Personal RePEc Archive Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
619
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,213
RANK
99,140
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies