Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Road Not Taken: Evaluating the Consequences of the U.S.’s Non-Adoption of IFRS in 2012

Forthcoming at The International Journal of Accounting

35 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2023 Last revised: 5 Nov 2024

John (Xuefeng) Jiang

Michigan State University

David S. Koo

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Isabel Yanyan Wang

Michigan State University

Date Written: April 20, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the consequences of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) 2012 decision not to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Despite predictions that this decision would diminish U.S. influence over IFRS and increase divergence from U.S. GAAP, our analysis reveals contrasting outcomes. Examining global adoption trends and standard-setting developments, we find IFRS market share increased from 53.3% in 2011 to 76.7% in 2022, while the U.S. maintained significant influence over IFRS standard-setting. Our analysis shows minimal divergence between IFRS and U.S. GAAP since 2012. We extend these findings to evaluate implications for global sustainability reporting standards, demonstrating that pursuing unified standards can yield benefits even without full adoption. This research contributes to understanding international accounting harmonization and informs approaches to sustainability reporting standardization. The evidence suggests the SEC's decision has neither impeded global accounting convergence nor diminished the quality of either standard-setting regime.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); U.S. GAAP; standard-setting process; 20-F reconciliation; global financial regulation, U.S. GAAP, Standard-Setting Process, 20-F Reconciliation, Sustainability, ESG, Global Financial Regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, John (Xuefeng) and Koo, David S. and Wang, Isabel, The Road Not Taken: Evaluating the Consequences of the U.S.’s Non-Adoption of IFRS in 2012 (April 20, 2023). Forthcoming at The International Journal of Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4424087 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4424087
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors. Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
L S Bamber , J Jiang , K R Petroni , I Y Wang
Comprehensive income: Who's afraid of performance reporting?
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 97 - 126 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
922
RANK
541,990
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies