Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation Implications of Mandatory CSR Expenditure in India

Abacus-A Journal of Accounting, Finance and Business, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2023

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Peter Clarkson

University of Queensland - Business School; Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Gordon D. Richardson

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: April 25, 2023

Abstract

We examine the value relevance of CSR expenditure utilizing the Indian setting of mandatory CSR spending regulation which commenced in 2014. India is the only country where regulators mandate both CSR reporting and spending. Our interest is in two types of firms that meet the minimum specified thresholds: firms that voluntarily made CSR expenditures pre-Regulation (Voluntary Spenders) and firms that did not (Forced Spenders). This separation in revealed preference allows researchers and investors to observe, at least on average, a firm’s true CSR strategy type (proactive/leader versus reactive/follower) through their pre-Regulation expenditure strategy. This unique quasi-experimental setting allows us to investigate whether CSR spending is positively associated with shareholders’ value, both when spending was voluntary pre-Regulation (for Voluntary Spenders) and after it becomes mandatory post-Regulation (for Voluntary and Forced Spenders). We find that for Voluntary Spenders, the markets assess CSR expenditure as valuation enhancing pre-Regulation but post-Regulation the valuation benefits are significantly weakened. The market’s assessment is that a Forced Spender’s (imposed) CSR expenditure is, on average, less valuable than that of Voluntary Spenders, consistent with such spending being viewed as a form of corporate taxation. Further, we find that shortfalls from the required spending amount are penalized by the market for Voluntary Spenders but rewarded for Forced Spenders. We also find that advertising appears to play an important communication role both pre- and post-Regulation. We view the results as being consistent with the notion that mandated expenditures are viewed differently than those made voluntarily.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility Expenditure; Mandatory-versus-Voluntary CSR; India; Valuation; Signaling

JEL Classification: M14; M48; G31; G38

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Clarkson, Peter and Richardson, Gordon D., Valuation Implications of Mandatory CSR Expenditure in India (April 25, 2023). Abacus-A Journal of Accounting, Finance and Business, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4428436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
790
RANK
601,250
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies