Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Systems - Adaptability and Resilience during a Global Pandemic

(2023) Accounting and Business Research

Posted: 3 May 2023

Stephen Daly

King's College London - The Dickson Poon School of Law

Date Written: May 2, 2023

Abstract

The tax system is traditionally understood as being geared primarily, but not exclusively, towards the raising of revenues. Taxes perform distributive and regulatory roles for instance. Furthermore, the tax system can also be engaged for the purpose of providing stability in times of uncertainty and for providing key information to government so that its policies (whether economic, social, health, environmental and so on) can be pursued. With its multivarious capabilities, it would be of little surprise to learn that governments turned to the tax system during the COVID-19 pandemic in order to alleviate the economic consequences of the emergency. The paper sets out to investigate the ways the tax system was used in response to the pandemic. It narrows in on two key findings: that the tax system was instrumental in providing stability and also in providing salient information for government use. A picture of the tax system as being adaptable and resilient is painted. But the key findings of the paper are not made without reservation.

Keywords: Taxation; tax policy; soft law; tax state; digitalisation; fraud.

JEL Classification: K34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Daly, Stephen, Tax Systems - Adaptability and Resilience during a Global Pandemic (May 2, 2023). (2023) Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4436320
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
513
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies