Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges for the Accurate Measurement and Accounting of Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emissions

60 Pages Posted: 9 May 2023

Anton Kelnhofer

Technische Universität München (TUM) - TUM School of Management

Benedikt Brauner

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 5, 2022

Abstract

As climate-related concerns and the urgency for rapid decarbonization become more prevalent, companies face an ever-increasing pressure to disclose accurate information on their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In this context, companies often struggle to ensure the validity and accuracy of GHG emission calculations published and frequently remain reluctant to intensify their efforts due to perceived ambiguity and clarity on their true carbon footprint. This potentially results in substantial deviations between GHG emission data actually incurred and publicly reported. We attempt to identify the drivers at the root of these deviations. To this end, we conduct a multiple-case study among 14 large, public companies operating in emission-intensive sectors. The study reveals that GHG accuracies mostly result from challenges regarding the application of available standards and initiatives, the collection and calculation of GHG emission data along scopes 1, 2 and 3, the transparency, motivation and target definition of published reports as well as objectives and quality of external verification by auditors. To address the identified issues, we outline and discuss possible courses of action to improve greenhouse gas accounting practices, frameworks and policies.

Keywords: Carbon Accounting, Sustainability Accounting, Industrial Decarbonization

JEL Classification: M41, M42, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Kelnhofer, Anton and Brauner, Benedikt, Challenges for the Accurate Measurement and Accounting of Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emissions (May 5, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4438705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4438705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,156
RANK
224,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies