Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linking Performance Measures and Feedback: Self-regulation for Creativity

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 16 May 2023

Ranjith Appuhami

University of Newcastle (Australia)

Date Written: May 6, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the proactive feedback effect of non-financial performance measures (NFPMs) and the passive feedback effect of financial performance measures (FPMs) on feedback-seeking behavior, perceived feedback quality, and individual creativity. Using a sample of survey data collected from middle-level managers in Australia, this study finds that managers passively receive performance information and perceive high-quality feedback when their performance is evaluated based on FPMs and that they proactively seek feedback when their performance is evaluated based on NFPMs. The results of the study also show that neither NFPMs nor FPMs are directly associated with individual creativity. However, the study finds that (1) the positive association between NFPMs and individual creativity is fully mediated by feedback-seeking behavior and perceived feedback quality together, and (2) the positive association between FPMs and individual creativity is fully mediated by perceived feedback quality alone. Further, the results indicate that feedback-seeking is not only a catalyst for perceived feedback quality but also a self-regulation strategy that facilitates individual creativity. In sum, the study offers initial empirical evidence of the passive feedback effect of FPMs and the proactive feedback effect of NFPMs on feedback and individual creativity.

Keywords: self-regulation; financial performance measures; non-financial performance measures; feedback-seeking behavior; feedback quality; creativity.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Appuhami, Ranjith, Linking Performance Measures and Feedback: Self-regulation for Creativity (May 6, 2023). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4439942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
361
RANK
531,414
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies