Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Operational Risk Disclosure Quality and National Culture: Evidence from the EU Banking Industry

Forthcoming at Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

54 Pages Posted: 23 May 2023

Florence Pinto Basto

Forward College

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Date Written: May 2023

Abstract

In this study, we analyze the association between national culture and voluntary operational risk disclosure quality in the European Union banking industry. Complementarily, we assess whether the potential impact of culture differs between global banks and banks with low levels of internationalization. Finally, we consider the impact of the formal institutional environment. Our sample covers 15 countries, and we construct a disclosure score based on hand-collected data. Three main results were obtained. First, banks in societies that score higher on individualism or long-term orientation and lower on uncertainty avoidance or power distance have better disclosures. Second, in global banks, where executive board members interact with stakeholders from different cultures, these associations are absent. Finally, contextual factors also affect the association between culture and disclosure, but this substitution effect is weaker than the one we document for globalization. Our results are robust to instrumental variables estimation, the use of the GLOBE project’s cultural dimensions, and a subsample analysis of civil code law countries.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, National Culture, Globalization, Contextual factors.

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32, G38, G41.

Suggested Citation:

Pinto Basto, Florence and Marques, Ana Cristina, Operational Risk Disclosure Quality and National Culture: Evidence from the EU Banking Industry (May 2023). Forthcoming at Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4452654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
N J Adler , A Gundersen
International dimensions of organizational behavior Posted: 2007
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: A meta-analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
L S Aiken , S G West , R R Reno
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
S Ang , L Van Dyne , C Koh , K Y Ng , K J Templer , C Tay , N A Chandrasekar
Cultural intelligence: Its measurement and effects on cultural judgment and decision making, cultural adaptation and task performance
Management and Organization Review , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 335 - 371 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
545
RANK
692,613
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies