Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multilevel consultation in the development of IFRS: a comparative content analysis of comment letters sent to EFRAG and the IASB

Int. J. Economics and Accounting, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp.307–340. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJEA.2022.130409

Posted: 25 May 2023

Martin Gäumann

Dresden University of Technology

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

This paper examines characteristics of the content of comment letters (CLs) written by European constituents and sent to the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG) and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to influence the development of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Following a multi-issue, multi-period approach, the study presented here involves a manual content analysis to compare the scope (i.e., organisation-specificity), form (i.e., completeness and level of detail), and tone (i.e., level of support) of the content of 892 pairs of CLs sent to EFRAG and the IASB between 2008 and 2016. Overall, the findings illuminate the participatory practices of European constituents in a cross-organisational setting, thereby challenging the common assumption that they send almost only highly similar or identical CLs to EFRAG and the IASB, as well as elucidate EFRAG’s intermediary role in setting international accounting standards.

Keywords: European Financial Reporting Advisory Group, EFRAG, International Accounting Standards Board, IASB, standard setting, International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, comment letters, due process

JEL Classification: M41, M48, F55

Suggested Citation:

Gäumann, Martin, Multilevel consultation in the development of IFRS: a comparative content analysis of comment letters sent to EFRAG and the IASB ( 2022). Int. J. Economics and Accounting, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp.307–340. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJEA.2022.130409, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4458479
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
181
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Economics Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies