Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loan Guarantees and Guarantors’ Accounting Conservatism: Evidence From China

Applied Economics (2023): 1-20.

Posted: 7 Jun 2023

Bin Liu

Independent

Yuan Yuan

Independent

Junrui Zhang

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: June 7, 2023

Abstract

Listed companies in China have provided large numbers of loan guarantees for borrowers in recent years. The loan guarantee size of A-share Main Board listed companies was about RMB 3.85 trillion at the end of 2017. On the one hand, loan guarantees help borrowers access debt financing, which promotes the development of capital markets. On the other hand, however, loan guarantees can increase the financial risks for guarantors. This study investigates the effects of loan guarantees on guarantors’ accounting conservatism. Based on a large sample of listed companies from 2007 to 2017, we find that loan guarantees have significant positive effects on guarantors’ accounting conservatism. When firms provide loan guarantees for borrowers, they report more conservative accounting information. Moreover, the effect of loan guarantees on accounting conservatism varies by borrower. Listed companies report more conservative accounting information when they provide guarantees for non-subsidiaries rather than for subsidiaries. Among the companies providing guarantees for non-subsidiaries, the companies engage in higher level of accounting conservatism when they guarantee the borrowing of controlling shareholders instead of the borrowing of non-controlling shareholders.

Keywords: loan guarantee; accounting conservatism; information asymmetry; loan guarantees type

JEL Classification: G34; H81; M41

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Bin and Yuan, Yuan and Zhang, Junrui and Zhou, Jian, Loan Guarantees and Guarantors’ Accounting Conservatism: Evidence From China (June 7, 2023). Applied Economics (2023): 1-20., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4472754
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies