Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Loan Disclosure Covenants and Public Management Guidance

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, forthcoming.

50 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2023 Last revised: 26 Oct 2023

Nicholas Krupa

Clemson University

Ruby Lee

University of Florida - Fisher School of Accounting

Jennifer Tucker

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business

Date Written: October 20, 2023

Abstract

Prior research provides little evidence about whether the information demands of private lenders affect the information environment of borrowers’ public shareholders. Using a covenant in loan contracts, lenders can require borrowers to periodically provide projected financial statements. We examine borrowers’ voluntary disclosure of prospective financial information (“management guidance”) to the public after being subject to the disclosure covenant. We find that the disclosure covenant is associated with more frequent management guidance. This relation is attributable to borrowers increasing nontraditional earnings guidance and non-earnings financial guidance. In falsification tests, we find that a covenant requiring borrowers to provide monthly historical financial information is not associated with management guidance and that the prospective financial information disclosure covenant is not associated with voluntary disclosure of nonfinancial information. Our results suggest that a firm’s contractual obligation to provide projected financial information to private lenders increases the quantity and breadth of its voluntary guidance to public shareholders.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, management earnings forecasts, guidance, covenants, loans, debt contracting.

JEL Classification: M4, M2, G3

Suggested Citation:

Krupa, Nicholas and Lee, Ruby and Tucker, Jennifer, Private Loan Disclosure Covenants and Public Management Guidance (October 20, 2023). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4476858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4476858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
C S Armstrong , J E Core , W R Guay
Do independent directors cause improvements in firm transparency
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 113 , p. 383 - 403 Posted: 2014
A Ben-Rephael , D Zhi , R Israelsen
It depends on where you search: Institutional investor attention and underreaction to news
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 3009 - 3047 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,148
RANK
350,748
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies