Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Accounting Regulation Strengthen Resilience? The Impact of IFRS 9 Adoption on Loan Loss Provisioning and Bank Behavior

55 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023

Michael Mies

University of Siegen, Chair of Accounting & Corporate Governance

Michael Torben Menk

University of Applied Sciences for Public Administration

Date Written: June 17, 2023

Abstract

Academic research on loan loss provisioning and the earlier incurred credit losses (ICL) model has a long tradition in the literature. Academic criticism of the ICL was taken up by the Financial Stability Board after the financial crisis of 2018, leading to a fundamental revision of accounting methodology by standard setters. The objective of this paper is to extend the research field with an empirical contribution to the recognition of Loan Loss Provisions (LLPs) based on the Expected Credit Loss model (ECL). By using a Difference-in-Differences research design, this paper aims to investigate the impact of accounting standard changes on bank behavior and, consequently, on the resilience of corporate and investment banks. Thus, this paper provides early empirical evidence of the IFRS 9 transition for bank supervisors, governments, and financial analysts.

Keywords: IFRS9, Asset Quality, Risk Taking, Loan Loss Provisioning

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32, G38, G41, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mies, Michael and Menk, Michael Torben, Can Accounting Regulation Strengthen Resilience? The Impact of IFRS 9 Adoption on Loan Loss Provisioning and Bank Behavior (June 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4497602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4497602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
G M Aevoae , A M Andrieș , S Ongena , N Sprincean
ESG and systemic risk
Applied Economics , volume 55 , issue 27 , p. 3085 - 3109 Posted: 2023
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
A Albrahimi
Loan Loss Provisioning and Market Discipline: Evidence from the IFRS 9 Adoption (SSRN) Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
RANK
286,507
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies