Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Exploring Financial Evidence from Listed Companies in the US

Rouvolis, S. (2022). International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Exploring Financial Evidence from Listed Companies in the US. Open Journal of Accounting, 11, 283-308. https://doi.org/10.4236/ojacct.2022.114014

26 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2023

Sotirios Rouvolis

Ministry of Finance, Greece

Date Written: October 14, 2022

Abstract

This paper relates to the financial effects of the official adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the US. IFRS is a set of unique, high-quality accounting standards that listed firms have been obliged to implement since 2005 in Europe. However, in 2007, the SEC decided to allow foreign firms listed in the US stock markets to publish their financials under IFRS without the need to reconciliate to the US GAAP. That fact increased the proportion of the converging process between the two regimes but provoked several core questions of interest to both academics and market professionals. In this order, the paper aims to detect any financial statement effects under IFRS for firms that used to follow US GAAP, to analyse whether the acceptance of IFRS in the US has improved the level of convergence between the two regimes, and provide evidence on whether listed firms in US markets exhibited fewer earnings management under IFRS. In this way, the paper tested a total of three Hypotheses, by involving quantitative analysis of secondary numerical data, from firms listed in the US stock markets that followed IFRS during the first allowance year (2007). The findings reveal that IFRS has not succeeded in eliminating falsified statements entirely but has performed better compared to other countries where they have been introduced. It seems that the US environment is appropriate for IFRS. Additionally, there are indications for fewer earnings management in the first IFRS adoption year, keeping a high level of accurate accounting interpretation. However, special attention is needed for any emerging issues in the future.

Keywords: IFRS, US GAAP, Convergence, Financial Statement Effects, Earnings Management

Suggested Citation:

Rouvolis, Sotirios, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Exploring Financial Evidence from Listed Companies in the US (October 14, 2022). Rouvolis, S. (2022). International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Exploring Financial Evidence from Listed Companies in the US. Open Journal of Accounting, 11, 283-308. https://doi.org/10.4236/ojacct.2022.114014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4534298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,643
RANK
256,498
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies