Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lost in the FOG: Growing Complexity in Financial Reporting – A Comparative Study

39 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2023 Last revised: 26 Oct 2024

Danny Lesmy

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Lev Muchnik

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Jerusalem School of Business Administration

Yevgeny Mugerman

Bar Ilan University

Date Written: October 25, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates the evolving readability of financial reporting by analyzing Item 7 of the 10-K reports over a 26-year period, utilizing a dataset of nearly 200,000 reports retrieved from SEC EDGAR filings. Our analysis reveals a significant decline in the readability of these reports over time, measured using the Fog Index. Specifically, we find that the number of years of schooling required to comprehend these texts increases by nearly one month each year, indicating a growing inaccessibility of financial reports for a substantial portion of the population. To contextualize these findings, we extend our analysis to include data from diverse financial corpora, encompassing almost 10 million documents. While most financial texts have shown a systematic increase in readability over the past decades, the Wall Street Journal emerges as a notable exception, exhibiting a moderate decline in readability—though at a much slower rate compared to Item 7. This study highlights the widening gap in financial text accessibility and underscores the need for more readable financial reporting.

Keywords: Readability, Financial Reporting, Item 7, 10-K, Fog Index, NLP, Plain English, BloombergGPT

JEL Classification: G10, G14

Suggested Citation:

Lesmy, Danny and Muchnik, Lev and Mugerman, Yevgeny, Lost in the FOG: Growing Complexity in Financial Reporting – A Comparative Study (October 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4542676 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4542676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A S Abu Bakar , R Ameer
Readability of Corporate Social Responsibility Communication in Malaysia
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 60 Posted: 2011
M Abudy , Shust E
What Happens to Trading Volume When the Regulator Bans Voluntary Disclosure?
European accounting Review , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 555 - 580 Posted: 2020
G Biddle , G Hilary , R Verdi
How Does Financial Reporting Quality Relate to Investment Efficiency?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
R J Bloomfield
The "Incomplete Revelation Hypothesis" and Financial Reporting. Accounting Horizons , volume 16 , p. 233 - 243 Posted: 2002
Load more
1 Citations
Ľubomír Benko , Anna Pilkova , Michal Munk , Slavka Eley
Pillar 3: The impact of language complexity on the preferences of commercial bank website users
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 259 , p. 125326 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,155
RANK
409,562
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies