Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Adoption and Key Accounting Ratios: an Evidence From Colombo Stock Exchange

Journal of Accountancy and Finance | Volume 9 Special Issue (2022)

24 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2023

Habeeb Mohamed Nijam

South Eastern University of Sri Lanka

A. J. Priyadarshani

South Eastern University of Sri Lanka

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption on key accounting ratios of firms listed in the
Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). The study also sought to test if the entity's sector
discriminates the impact that the IFRS adoption has on accounting ratios being
evaluated. Descriptive statistics and non-parametric univariate analysis (Mann
Whitney U test) were used to compare pre and post IFRS convergence ratios. The
researchers tested eleven accounting ratios falling under profitability, liquidity,
leverage, and market performance. We randomly sampled 40 firms listed in CSE, 20
each from the service and manufacturing sectors. The study period was ten years from
2007 through 2016, whereby the periods corresponding to pre-IFRS convergence were
from 2007 through 2011, and post-IFRS convergence was captured from 2012 through
2016. We showed that all profitability measures we tested were significantly impacted
by IFRS adoption. We infer that the direct comparability of the profitability measures
across pre and post-IFRS periods is no longer useful for decision making. In contrast,
all liquidity ratios investigated were significantly indifferent between the pre and postIFRS adoption. We have argued that liquidity measures have not changed considerably
due to IFRS adoption and may thus still be comparable across pre and post-IFRS
periods. Leverage and market ratios returned mixed results. We also document that the
IFRS convergence's impact on profitability and leverage ratios tends to be influenced
by the sector in which firms operate, while its impact is not evidenced in relation to
liquidity measures and market ratios. The limitation of this paper is that the effects of
firm-specific variables and macro-economic factors on accounting ratios were not
controlled. The results are useful for those interested in analyzing the long-term trends
of accounting ratios. Our findings will also help the policymakers, standards setters,
financial analysts, and future researchers about the behaviors of accounting ratios and
quality financial reporting due to convergence to IFRS-based accounting regimes. This
study is one of very few works on this topic in Sri Lanka, an IFRS jurisdiction with a
developing economy.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, International Accounting, IFRS Adoption, Accounting Ratios, Financial Ratios

JEL Classification: F,G,M

Suggested Citation:

Nijam, Habeeb Mohamed and Priyadarshani, A. J., IFRS Adoption and Key Accounting Ratios: an Evidence From Colombo Stock Exchange ( 2022). Journal of Accountancy and Finance | Volume 9 Special Issue (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4542197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
561
RANK
708,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies