Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does a more prominent presentation format improve information usefulness?

The British Accounting Review, 2025[10.1016/j.bar.2025.101640]

Posted: 20 Sep 2023 Last revised: 10 Sep 2025

Rong Huang

University of Macau

Ming Liu

University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

Feng Tang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Desmond Chun Yip Yuen

University of Macau

Date Written: January 02, 2025

Abstract

We investigated how the presentation format of other comprehensive income (OCI) affects information use in the Chinese market. We found that changing the reporting location of OCI from a statement of shareholders’ equity to a statement of comprehensive income enhances its value relevance. Consistent with the corporate information environment mechanism (from the information user’s perspective), we observed that the market benefit was stronger for firms with a weaker information environment, proxied by a lower frequency of analyst forecasts, less media coverage, and lower institutional ownership. In support of the OCI reporting quality mechanism (from the information preparer’s perspective), we found that the valuation impact was larger for firms with more enhanced relevance and reliability of OCI information, as reflected by increased predictability for future performance and reduced earnings management through the cherry-picking of financial assets measured at fair value through OCI. Our results add to the understanding of the capital market outcomes of the more prominent reporting format of OCI and shed new light on the regulatory efficacy of mandating an income statement-type format of OCI reporting in emerging markets.

Keywords: Presentation Format, Other Comprehensive Income, Value Relevance, Corporate Information Environment, Information Transparency

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Rong and Liu, Ming and Tang, Feng and Yuen, Desmond Chun Yip, Does a more prominent presentation format improve information usefulness? (January 02, 2025). The British Accounting Review, 2025[10.1016/j.bar.2025.101640], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4559385 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bar.2025.101640
 Not Available for Download
58 References
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
A S Ahmed , C Takeda
Stock market valuation of gains and losses on commercial banks' investment securities: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 1995
Aimr
Financial reporting in the 1990's and beyond Posted: 1993
L S Bamber , J X Jiang , K R Petroni , I Y Wang
Comprehensive income: Who's afraid of performance reporting?
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 97 - 126 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
505
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies