Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ancestral Kinship Structure and Country-Level Contemporary Financial Reporting Quality

70 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2023

Ashiq Ali

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

Zhongwen Fan

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Yifan (Yvonne) Jia

Xiamen University

Siman Li

Lingnan University

Date Written: September 6, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the effect of people’s ancestral kinship structure - the extent to which their ancestors were interdependent on extended family networks - on their country’s contemporary financial reporting quality. We argue that the culture of in-group trust (out-group trust) present in tightly knit (loose) ancestral kinship systems gets transmitted to future generations, and this culture and related institutional developments promote relationship-based (open market) transactions, which in turn influence financial reporting quality. Using an ancestral kinship tightness measure based on the social structures of pre-industrialization ethnic groups, we provide robust evidence suggesting that a country’s contemporary financial reporting quality is negatively associated with its people’s ancestral kinship tightness. Furthermore, controlling for ancestral kinship tightness significantly diminishes the explanatory power for financial reporting quality of many of the previously identified contemporary country attributes. These findings provide an explanation for the “high co-dependencies” observed by Isidro, Nanda, and Wysocki (2020) among these contemporary country attributes and address the call by Leuz and Wysocki (2016) to identify a “fundamental primitive” underlying the heterogeneity in country-level financial reporting quality.

Keywords: Ancestral kinship structure; Country-level financial reporting quality; Culture; Institutions; Relational transactions

JEL Classification: D00; D90; M41

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Ashiq and Fan, Zhongwen and Jia, Yifan (Yvonne) and Li, Siman, Ancestral Kinship Structure and Country-Level Contemporary Financial Reporting Quality (September 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4562846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4562846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , J A Robinson
The colonial origins of comparative development: An empirical investigation
American Economic Review , volume 91 , issue 5 , p. 1369 - 1401 Posted: 2001
M Akbari , D Bahrami-Rad , E O Kimbrough
Kinship, fractionalization and corruption
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 166 , p. 493 - 528 Posted: 2019
A Alesina , P Giuliano
Family ties and political participation
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 9 , issue 5 , p. 817 - 839 Posted: 2011
A Alesina , P Giuliano
Family ties
Handbook of Economic Growth , volume 2 , p. 177 - 215 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
951
RANK
359,301
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies