Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Investments in Private Firms: The Benefits of Comparability for Foreign Investors

64 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2023 Last revised: 10 Dec 2024

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Arthur Stenzel

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Date Written: November 29, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether the mandated convergence of local German GAAP with IFRS increases investment by foreign equity investors in German private firms. Exploiting a large-sample quasi-experimental setting, we document an average foreign ownership increase of 2 to 8 percent in firms affected by the accounting reform compared to our unaffected control firms. Based on our identification strategy, using both the unique setting and accounting system comparability (that is, the comparability of cash flows in the next period), we show that increased comparability can minimize challenges faced by investors in private firms. We also find that those investors more familiar with IFRS benefit more from the increased accounting comparability. Our findings are robust to different forms of matching procedures and a placebo test. We provide evidence for ongoing discussions on the costs of separate accounting standards for private firms. We show significant benefits when private firms’ accounting becomes more (and not less) comparable to that of public firms.

Keywords: accounting comparability, private firms, economic effects, cross-border investment

JEL Classification: G14, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Dinh, Tami and Stenzel, Arthur, Cross-Border Investments in Private Firms: The Benefits of Comparability for Foreign Investors (November 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4575873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4575873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P D Wysocki
Portfolio preferences of foreign institutional investors
J. Bank. Finance , volume 29 , issue 12 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
J. Accounting Econom , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
Accounting Rev , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
D Amiram
Financial Information Globalization and Foreign Investment Decisions
J. Int. Accounting Res , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 57 - 81 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
441,817
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies