Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intangible Asset Valuation: The Impact of Scalability and Economic Dependence

59 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2023

Robert A. Raney

IESE Business School; University of Washington

Date Written: May 21, 2019

Abstract

I examine two sources of heterogeneity in the valuation of intangible assets: scalability and economic dependence. Scalability positively impacts the value of a firm’s option to extend the use of existing intangible assets. Economic dependence negatively impacts the value of a firm’s option to adapt its intangible assets to a different use. I develop a novel approach to categorize firms based on these characteristics and find significant variation in scalability and economic dependence in the cross section of firms. Further, I find that valuation multiples are increasing in the scalability of intangible assets and decreasing in the economic dependence of intangible assets. These results highlight the importance of considering how the properties of a firm’s intangible assets impact the relation between market prices and accounting information and impact the distribution of a firm’s potential future cash flows.

Keywords: Intangible Assets; Adaptation Option; Growth Option; Economic Dependence; Scalability; Equity Book Value; Earnings

Suggested Citation:

Raney, Robert A., Intangible Asset Valuation: The Impact of Scalability and Economic Dependence (May 21, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4576131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4576131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
979
RANK
339,352
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies