Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discretionary Accounting Choices and Financial Statement Comparability: Evidence from Extractive Industries Pre- and Post-IFRS Adoption

57 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2023

Niclas Hellman

Stockholm School of Economics

Mariya N. Ivanova

Stockholm School of Economics

Zeping Pan

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: August 2023

Abstract

Extant literature suggests that IFRS adoption is associated with higher comparability. However, theoretical ambiguity surrounds how principles-based IFRS accounting standards improve comparability, especially when offering a larger set of accounting choices. This study investigates how introducing more accounting discretion affects financial statement comparability by examining the adoption of IFRS in extractive industries (EI), which increases discretion for accounting for exploration and evaluation (E&E) costs. Using a set of alternative comparability measures and model specifications, our results indicate that overall comparability decreases under IFRS 6 (Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources). Hand-collected data from annual reports show that a significant number of firms change their E&E accounting policies, contributing to increased diversity in firms’ accounting policies after the adoption of IFRS 6. We find that capital market incentives and other firm characteristics, such as small positive earnings and higher leverage, predict a firm’s decision to change E&E policy. Lastly, we document that while comparability is positively associated with information benefits for financial statement users, the changes in E&E accounting policies negatively affect the market’s assessment of accounting information. Our findings support the theoretical argument that increasing discretion in accounting standards introduces managerial opportunism. Overall, this study contributes to the ongoing debate on the role of accounting discretion and its impact on information quality.

Suggested Citation:

Hellman, Niclas and Ivanova, Mariya N. and Pan, Zeping, Discretionary Accounting Choices and Financial Statement Comparability: Evidence from Extractive Industries Pre- and Post-IFRS Adoption (August 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4582087 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4582087
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Acsb
Accounting Standards Board
Summary comparison of Canadian GAAP and IFRSs Posted: 2008
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
A Ali , L S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
985
RANK
344,239
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies