Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Education in a Transition Economy: A Case Study of Russian Universities

20 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2003

Galina Preobragenskaya

Abu Dhabi University - Department of Accounting

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

Russia is in the process of converting its accounting system from the old Soviet model to one that resembles the systems found in developed market economies. The country is adopting international financial reporting standards but with a Russian flavor. To make the transition successful it is necessary to transform accounting education. Present practitioners must be educated in the new system and a new generation of accountants must learn the new system. This paper reviews the relevant accounting education literature and summarizes the results of interviews of accounting educators conducted in Russia during the summer of 2003.

Keywords: accounting, education, transition economy, Russia, International Accounting Standards, IAS, International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS

JEL Classification: I20, M41, M44, M47, M53, O16, P20

Suggested Citation:

Preobragenskaya, Galina G. and McGee, Robert W., Accounting Education in a Transition Economy: A Case Study of Russian Universities. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=459361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Carol A Adams , M Katarzyna , Mcmillan
Internationalizing Financial Reporting in a Newly Emerging Market Economy: The Polish Example
Advances in International Accounting , volume 10 , p. 139 - 164 Posted: 1997
Anonymous
Teaching in Russia
#2 Posted: 2003-02
Anonymous
Accountants in Russia Gain International Skills
Financial Management Posted: 2001-04
Anonymous
Tanya Bondarenko Seeks American Education
Baylor Business Review , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 12 - 14 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
881
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,667
RANK
62,378
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance in Transition and Developing Economies: A Case Study of Brazil

By Robert W. Mcgee

Insider Trading Regulation in Transition Economies

By Robert W. Mcgee

Timeliness of Financial Reporting in the Russian Energy Sector

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies