Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measurement of Financial Reporting Quality Based on IFRS Conceptual Framework's Fundamental Qualitative Characteristics

Kythreotis, A. (2014). "Measurement Of Financial Reporting Quality Based On Ifrs Conceptual Framework’S Fundamental Qualitative Characteristics," European Journal of Accounting, Finance & Business, vol. 2(3), pages 4-29, October.

26 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2023

Alexios Kythreotis

European University Cyprus

Date Written: November 3, 2014

Abstract

The IASB creates the standards and the conceptual framework in an attempt to create higher quality financial statements. Through this article, the extent to which this objective has been achieved is examined. An important characteristic of this research is the fact that the quality of financial statements is examined in light of the Conceptual Framework. Specifically, the two fundamental qualitative characteristics - relevance and faithful representation (reliability) - set by the IAS Committee through the Conceptual Framework are examined. Additionally, this article highlights the conflict between the existing methods for measuring reliability and the faithful representation, as defined by the Conceptual Framework. The degree of relevance and reliability is measured by the usage of four alternative regression models. The sample of this research consists of listed companies of fifteen European countries that have adopted IFRS mandatorily and the time horizon that is investigated is 10 years, from 2000 until 2009. Specifically, the period between 2000 and 2004 is defined as the period before the adoption, while the period between 2005 and 2009 is defined as the period after the adoption. Generally, the findings that are obtained support an increase in relevance, while the reliability seems to be unchanged.

Keywords: Adoption of IFRS; Financial Reporting quality; Conceptual Framework; Qualitative Characteristics; Relevance; Faithfull Representation (Reliability)

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kythreotis, Alexios, Measurement of Financial Reporting Quality Based on IFRS Conceptual Framework's Fundamental Qualitative Characteristics (November 3, 2014). Kythreotis, A. (2014). "Measurement Of Financial Reporting Quality Based On Ifrs Conceptual Framework’S Fundamental Qualitative Characteristics," European Journal of Accounting, Finance & Business, vol. 2(3), pages 4-29, October., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4594601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
S A Anwer , M Neel , D Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in UK Private Firms: Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
695
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,665
RANK
85,609
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies