Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Firm Disclosure Transparency and International IPO Underpricing

56 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2023 Last revised: 27 Feb 2024

Yangyang Chen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Abhinav Goyal

University of Birmingham; University College Cork

Walid Saffar

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Leon Zolotoy

University of Melbourne - Melbourne Business School

Date Written: October 31, 2023

Abstract

Using a comprehensive sample of IPOs listed in 46 countries, we show that private firm disclosure transparency increases IPO underpricing of the issuing peer firms. The effect is amplified among IPOs with higher costs of information disclosure, while it is mitigated among IPOs with lower information uncertainty, IPOs backed by reputable intermediaries and venture capital firms, and IPOs listed in countries with strong external governance mechanisms and stringent financial reporting systems. Further, we show that investor demand for IPO shares is negatively related to private firm disclosure transparency, while it is positively related to IPO underpricing. We conclude that private firm disclosure transparency diverts investor attention and capital away from the issuing peer firms, forcing them to offer a larger underpricing discount on their stocks.

Keywords: Private firm disclosures, IPO underpricing, investor attention, crowding out effect

JEL Classification: D81, F30, G15, G32, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yangyang and Goyal, Abhinav and Saffar, Walid and Zolotoy, Leon, Private Firm Disclosure Transparency and International IPO Underpricing (October 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4618701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4618701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
R Aggarwal , L Krigman , K Womack
Strategic IPO underpricing, information momentum, and lockup expiration selling
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 66 , p. 105 - 137 Posted: 2002
E Bajo , T J Chemmanur , K Simonyan , H Tehranian
Underwriter networks, investor attention, and initial public offerings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 122 , p. 376 - 408 Posted: 2016
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,379
RANK
317,158
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies