Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Influence of IFRS Adoption on the Quality of Accounting Practices: A Review on Augmented Disclosure Demands

43 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2023

Simi Anto

CMR UNIVERSITY; CMR University

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper conducts a comprehensive review of the existing literature on the impact of conforming to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on accounting quality, specifically examining its influence on manipulative practices in reporting earnings and the enhancement of the value relevance of financial information. The Scopus database was used to gather a sample of 68 research publications, and the inclusion criteria were based on factors that affect the quality of accounting, earnings management, value relevance, and clarity of accounting practices. Results show that value relevance increased due to the adoption of IFRS; this increase is attributed to improved financial reporting's disclosure, comparability, and transparency. According to several studies, value relevance has not altered, conforming to recently established local GAAP criteria. Additionally, investors benefit from a notable decrease in information asymmetry and earnings mismanagement following adoption. The paper contributes to future research by identifying potential areas of study related to the impact of disclosure requirements on enhancing financial reporting integrity and understanding investor attitudes towards increased accounting transparency.

Keywords: IFRS adoption, disclosure requirements, accounting transparency, Value relevance, earnings mismanagement

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Anto, Simi, Investigating the Influence of IFRS Adoption on the Quality of Accounting Practices: A Review on Augmented Disclosure Demands (October 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4618946 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4618946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
G Wakil , K A Petruska
Does mandatory IFRS adoption affect large and small public firms' accounting quality differently? Evidence from Canada
Advances in Accounting , volume 57 Posted: 2022
A Adhikari , M Bansal , A Kumar
IFRS convergence and accounting quality: India a case study
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 45 Posted: 2021
H M Nijam , A Jahfer
IFRS adoption and value relevance of accounting information: Evidence from a developing country
Global Business Review , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 1416 - 1435 Posted: 2018
B A Badu
Value relevance of accounting information: an emerging country perspective
Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change , volume 14 , p. 473 - 491 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
RANK
342,603
1 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies