Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Readiness of the Malawian Public Companies in the Adoption of the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 - Sustainability Disclosure Standards

INTL Sustainability Journal Vol. 1. No. 1, Oct 2023

21 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2024

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: October 31, 2023

Abstract

The users of financial statements vis-a-vis investors and creditors are increasingly becoming aware of the need for reporting entities to produce sustainability reports indicating how the activities of the given firm are affecting the environment. All Malawian public limited companies are required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as per the Companies Act 2013. The sustainability standards were recently published in June 2023 dubbed IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 which reporting entities must adopt from 1st January 2024 or earlier if permitted to do so. Malawian public companies must adopt them too. This study has found out that the global companies have been publishing sustainability reports on a voluntary basis but this has not been the case in Malawi. There is therefore a need to take deliberate approach and coordinated effort amongst different stakeholders in the Malawian capital market to comply with the requirements of the two sustainability standards.

Keywords: Malawi, Sustainability, Standards, IFRSs

JEL Classification: O43, O53, Q28, Q48, Q52, Q56, R23

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Assessing the Readiness of the Malawian Public Companies in the Adoption of the IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 - Sustainability Disclosure Standards (October 31, 2023). INTL Sustainability Journal Vol. 1. No. 1, Oct 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4618876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Victor Chan
ISSB issues IFRS S2 new climate-related disclosure standard Posted: 2023-06-26
Deloitte
Sustainability Reporting Strategy -Creating an Impact through transparency Environment Management Act Posted: 2016
Updated Nationally Determined Contributions Government of Malawi (2022) Voluntary
National Review Report for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Posted: 2021
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Determining the controlling interest in the public limited company with partially issued share capital -Case study of Malawi Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 30 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
877
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,787
RANK
62,961
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies