Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory disclosure would reveal corporate carbon damages: Accurate reporting is critical for markets and climate policies

Science, 24 Aug 2023, Vol 381, Issue 6660, pp. 837-840

Posted: 8 Nov 2023 Last revised: 9 Nov 2023

Michael Greenstone

University of Chicago - Department of Economics; Becker Friedman Institute for Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

Patricia Breuer

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: August 25, 2023

Abstract

The US Securities and Exchange Commission recently proposed a rule that would mandate that public companies report their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This follows similar efforts in the European Union (EU) and United Kingdom. One rationale is that disclosure will provide information on material risks to investors, making it evident which firms are most exposed to future climate policies. In addition, some believe that reporting will galvanize pressure from companies’ key stakeholders (e.g., customers and employees), leading them to voluntarily reduce their emissions. This reasoning is in line with evidence for financial markets and disclosure mandates that form the third wave of environmental policy, which follows a wave of direct regulation and a wave of market-based approaches. But what might such disclosure reveal? We provide a first-cut preview of what we might learn about the climate damages caused by each company’s GHG emissions by drawing on one of the largest global datasets, which covers roughly 15,000 public companies. We show that corporate carbon damages, a measure of the total costs to society associated with corporate emissions, are on average large when compared to firms' operating profits, but also skewed and very heterogeneous across firms, industries and countries. We also show that there is substantial potential for peer benchmarking within industries.

Keywords: Carbon emissions, GHG, Disclosure, Reporting, Regulation, Peer effects

JEL Classification: G38, H23, K22, L51, M41, Q51

Suggested Citation:

Greenstone, Michael and Leuz, Christian and Breuer, Patricia, Mandatory disclosure would reveal corporate carbon damages: Accurate reporting is critical for markets and climate policies (August 25, 2023). Science, 24 Aug 2023, Vol 381, Issue 6660, pp. 837-840, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4620586
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,567
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies