Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyses of Unintended Consequences of IAS 12 on Deferred Income Taxes

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 25, No. 4, 2023

23 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023

Jude Edeigba

Colorado Mesa University

Ernest Gyapong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Vincent Konadu Tawiah

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

Purpose
An intractable effect of revenue and expense recognition based on tax regulation and accounting rules is unresolved and may be manageable only by reducing the value of deferred taxes. Therefore, in this study, the authors examined the relationship between the International Accounting Standard 12 (IAS 12) and deferred income taxes associated with tax and accounting rules.

Design/methodology/approach
The authors used a large sample of balanced data from 144 firms across 1992–2019. To mitigate the problem of superfluous results, the authors used the same number of firms and years for pre- and post-IAS 12 periods. The authors employed robust econometric estimations to establish the impact of IAS 12 on deferred tax.

Findings
The regression results show that deferred tax assets decreased significantly, whereas deferred tax liabilities increased significantly, in the post-IAS 12 period. These contrasting results imply that IAS 12 implementation has increased conservatism and prudence in financial reporting. However, the authors find that the increase in deferred tax assets post-IAS 12 is value destructive, suggesting that its implementation has unintended consequences. The results are robust to alternative measurements and econometric identification strategies.

Originality/value
While prior studies have explored topics such as deferred tax measurement and the impact of income and expense recognition, the authors specifically analyzed how IAS 12 affects deferred taxes and their effect on the market valuation. The authors find that certain accounting standards may not be relevant to the capital market.

Keywords: Accounting rules, Tax rules, Accounting standards, Financial statements

Suggested Citation:

Edeigba, Jude and Gyapong, Ernest and Tawiah, Vincent Konadu, Analyses of Unintended Consequences of IAS 12 on Deferred Income Taxes (December 1, 2023). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 25, No. 4, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4625667
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
V Agarwal , R J Taffler
Twenty-five years of the Taffler z-score model: Does it really have predictive ability
Accounting and Business Research , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 285 - 300 Posted: 2007
A Alkurdi , G H Mardini
The impact of ownership structure and the board of directors' composition on tax avoidance strategies: Empirical evidence from Jordan
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 795 - 812 Posted: 2020
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue 3-4 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
A Alsaadi
Financial-tax reporting conformity, tax avoidance and corporate social responsibility
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 639 - 659 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
936
RANK
812,770
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies