Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate risk disclosures in turbulent times: An international analysis in the global financial crisis

Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting. Vol. 35 No. 1 (2024), pp. 261-289. https://doi.org./10.1111/jifm.12195

Posted: 10 Nov 2023 Last revised: 12 Jan 2024

Kaouthar Lajili

University of Ottawa - Faculty of Administration

TieMei Li

University of Ottawa - School of Management

Lamia Chourou

University of Ottawa

Michael Dobler

Dresden University of Technology - Faculty of Economics and Business Management

Daniel Zeghal

University of Ottawa - Faculty of Administration

Date Written: November 7, 2023

Abstract

Focusing on the global financial crisis period, this paper examines risk disclosure patterns and outcomes in a cross‐country setting. We build on prior risk disclosure literature and draw upon institutional and agency‐based theoretical lenses to investigate the nature, comprehensiveness, evolution, and quality of disclosed risk information for matched samples of manufacturing firms in the United States, Canada, Germany, and China (Chinese Hong Kong‐listed firms). The results show a high degree of heterogeneity in risk disclosure behavior and volume among the sample firms attributed to both institutional differences and corporate reporting incentives in the study period. Furthermore, we document significant associations between risk proxies, risk disclosures, and firm market performance suggesting that corporate risk disclosures are potentially informative and useful to investors and other stakeholders. The paper highlights the important joint role of corporate incentives and legal institutions in interpreting and implementing accounting standards and stock exchange listing regulations around the world and during turbulent times.

Keywords: International accounting, Operational risk, Risk disclosure

JEL Classification: G01, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lajili, Kaouthar and Li, TieMei and Chourou, Lamia and Dobler, Michael and Zeghal, Daniel, Corporate risk disclosures in turbulent times: An international analysis in the global financial crisis (November 7, 2023). Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting. Vol. 35 No. 1 (2024), pp. 261-289. https://doi.org./10.1111/jifm.12195 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4626773
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies