Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The quantity and quality of narrative disclosures in management reports: CNMV guide effect

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting

53 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2023

Álvaro Melón-Izco

University of La Rioja - Department of Economy and Business

Date Written: November 13, 2023

Abstract

This paper analyses the impact of compliance with the Guide for the Preparation of the Management Report of Listed Companies (CNMV guide) on the quantity and quality of narrative disclosures. We jointly examine text and visual elements as attributes defining the quantity of information, proposing a new measure to quantify visual elements’ information content. Additionally, we develop a quality indicator surpassing traditional coding methods to assess disclosure quality accurately. Analysing consolidated management reports from 2010 to 2016, we explore the evolution of quantity and quality of narrative disclosures, factors influencing them, and their interrelationships. Results show substantial increases in the absolute length of text and visual elements over the study period. The use of graphic resources has grown relative to text, indicating the growing importance of visual elements in non-financial reporting. Compliance with the CNMV guide positively affects text quantity but not visual elements. Furthermore, companies complying with the guide demonstrate higher information quality, meeting stakeholders’ needs effectively. The findings highlight the positive impact of the CNMV guide on narrative disclosures in listed companies. Overall, our study contributes to a comprehensive understanding of narrative disclosures' quantity and quality and sheds light on the effectiveness of compliance with reporting guidelines.

Keywords: narrative disclosure; management report; reporting guidelines; legitimacy theory; disclosure quality.

JEL Classification: M40; M41; M48; D82; G18.

Suggested Citation:

Melón, Álvaro, The quantity and quality of narrative disclosures in management reports: CNMV guide effect (November 13, 2023). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4630625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Aicpa
Improving business reporting -A customer Focus: Meeting the Information Needs of Investors and Creditors, Comprehensive Report of the Special Committee on Financial Reporting Posted: 1994
A Ajina , M Laouiti , B Msolli
Guiding through the Fog: Does annual report readability reveal earnings management? Research in International Business and Finance , volume 38 , p. 509 - 516 Posted: 2016
M Arellano , S Bond
Some Tests of Specification for Panel Data: Monte Carlo Evidence and an Application to Employment Equations
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , issue 2 Posted: 1991
M Arellano , O Bover
Another look at the instrumental variable estimation of errorcomponents models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
353
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies