Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Amount and Quality of R&D Capitalization under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

51 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2023

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Huixia Chen

Renmin University of China

Jenny Guan

Monash University

Kangtao Ye

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: November 14, 2023

Abstract

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently investigating how to improve the accounting for R&D costs. We examine the amount and quality of capitalized R&D costs when firms are allowed to do so under IFRS, and offer four main findings. First, less than one-third of firm-years with R&D costs capitalize any amount of R&D, and, among those that do, only one-fifth of total R&D costs are capitalized. These findings suggest that, when given discretion, firms do not appear to capitalize significant amounts of R&D. Second, we predict and find that R&D labor costs are a proxy for R&D quality, as evidenced by a lower likelihood of cutting R&D spending and lower R&D employee turnover, and a greater number of current and future patents. Third, we find a positive association between this proxy for R&D quality and the amount of R&D costs that firms capitalize. This suggests that, when given discretion, firms appear to capitalize R&D of high quality. Finally, we find that capitalized R&D costs are positively associated with investors pricing, but only when R&D is high quality. In additional analysis, we examine real effects from a recent IFRS-country R&D disclosure mandate, finding that it increased both the level and quality of R&D expenditures. Overall, our findings suggest that when R&D can be capitalized and disclosure quality is high, firms appear to capitalize legitimate R&D costs, and that, at a minimum, the FASB can improve R&D accounting by requiring firms to disclose R&D information, including labor costs.

Keywords: R&D accounting; Disclosure regulation; R&D labor costs; Innovation

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Chen, Huixia and Guan, Jenny and Ye, Kangtao, The Amount and Quality of R&D Capitalization under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) (November 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4632001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4632001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,709
RANK
158,949
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies