Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysts' information environment and voluntary turn away from IFRS

59 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2023 Last revised: 18 Nov 2024

Andrei Filip

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Anne Jeny

IESEG School of Management

Louis Mangeney

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Date Written: November 13, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the relation between firms’ financial disclosures and analysts' information environment in a country-specific setting to deepen our understanding of financial analysts’ role as intermediaries for well-functioning capital markets. We leverage the Swiss regulatory context, which enables publicly traded firms to voluntarily switch to a less complex and costly to implement accounting standard to provide more direct insights into how changes in firms’ disclosures affect analyst following, forecast accuracy, and recommendation informativeness. Using difference-in-differences analysis, we find that firms voluntarily turning away from IFRS to Swiss GAAP experience a decrease in analysts’ following, a decrease in forecasts’ accuracy, and their upgrade recommendations are less informative. Additional analysis reveal that these effects are mainly driven by analysts without prior experience with Swiss GAAP and not by foreign analysts. Our results highlight the role of financial analysts’ accounting expertise in shaping firms’ information environment. 

Keywords: IFRS, Financial analyst, Swiss GAAP, Accuracy, following

JEL Classification: M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Filip, Andrei and Jeny, Anne and Mangeney, Louis, Analysts' information environment and voluntary turn away from IFRS (November 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4641318 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4641318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Biased forecasts or biased earnings? The role of reported earnings in explaining apparent bias and over/underreaction in analysts' earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 105 - 146 Posted: 2003
J A Agana , S G Zori , A Alon
IFRS Adoption Approaches and Accounting Quality
The International Journal of Accounting , issue 2 Posted: 2023
D Baboukardos , A Kopita
Integrated Reporting and the Informativeness of Financial Analysts' Stock Recommendations
The International Journal of Accounting , issue 2 Posted: 2024
K H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
686
RANK
627,303
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies