Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Measurement, Prudential Regulation, and the Real Effects of IFRS 9 on Non-Performing Loans

55 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2023 Last revised: 18 Sep 2025

Madeline Kalista

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

We examine how the interaction between accounting measurement and prudential regulation shapes banks’ loss recognition and resolution strategies for non-performing loans (NPLs). We exploit the adoption of IFRS 9, which introduced forward-looking expected credit loss measurement but allowed banks to (i) recognize higher credit loss allowances at transition directly in retained earnings and (ii) phase in their effect on regulatory capital. We argue that these transition features gave banks both the ability and the incentive to write down and divest NPLs—whose reported amounts had previously been shielded from market prices on balance sheets—thereby overcoming frictions in the secondary NPL market. Consistent with this prediction, we find that the IFRS 9 transition triggered higher impairment charges on NPLs and, subsequently, greater NPL sales, improving banks’ balance sheet quality. Our findings highlight how the interaction of accounting measurement and prudential regulation shapes banks’ economic decisions.




Keywords: non-performing loans, IFRS 9, banks, expected credit loss, Regulatory Capital, Prudential Regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Kalista, Madeline and Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán, Accounting Measurement, Prudential Regulation, and the Real Effects of IFRS 9 on Non-Performing Loans (September 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4645531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4645531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Joshua D Angrist , Jörn-Steffen Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
Martin Arnold
EU banks rush to 'have cake and eat it' with bad loan sales
The Financial Times Posted: 2018-04-23
Ifis Banca , Mary E Barth , Wayne R Landsman
How did Financial Reporting Contribute to the Financial Crisis?
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 423 Posted: 2010
Bcbs
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision: Regulatory treatment of accounting provisionsinterim approach and transitional arrangements Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,280
RANK
177,685
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies