Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who or What Counts in International Accounting Standard Setting? The Case of IFRS 7

42 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2023

Anne Bean

Queensland University of Technology

Date Written: November 28, 2023

Abstract

Little is known about who or what influences IASB standard setting outcomes and there is no systematic evidence when the subject is disclosure. This study explores patterns of influence by three key stakeholder groups: users, preparers, and audit firms. Analyzing over four thousand pages of stakeholder comment letters written in response to four exposure drafts that increase the disclosure requirements for derivative financial instruments, I find that stakeholders’ lobbying positions reflect their economic incentives. Large audit firm lobbying is the strongest for proposals that increase their audit fees but do not increase their audit risk, preparers oppose all new disclosures and users support them. Over the ten-year period, the evidence reveals that the disclosures have evolved to suit the economic interests of large audit firms. Further analysis the of comment letters suggests that the technical arguments most often employed by audit firms are more effective at securing desired changes to proposed disclosures following public consultations.

Keywords: accounting standards, International Accounting Standards Board, IASB, lobbying; standard setting, IFRS 7

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bean, Anne, Who or What Counts in International Accounting Standard Setting? The Case of IFRS 7 (November 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4646346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4646346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Aicpa
Improving business reporting -a customer focus: Meeting the information needs of investors and creditors Posted: 1994
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
A Allen , K Ramanna , S Roychowdhury
Auditor lobbying on accounting standards
Journal of Law, Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming Posted: 2018
M Bamber , K Mcmeeking
An examination of international accounting standardsetting due process and the implications for legitimacy
British Accounting Review , volume 48 , p. 59 - 73 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
438
RANK
677,757
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies