Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Local Country Reporting Requirements Affect Parent Company Geographic Disclosures?

61 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2023 Last revised: 16 Oct 2024

Nerissa C. Brown

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Michelle Hutchens

University of Illinois

Benjamin Osswald

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 01, 2024

Abstract

We empirically examine the influence of local country reporting requirements on geographic disclosures in US multinational enterprises’ (MNEs’) consolidated financial statements. Exploiting a disclosure enforcement reform in Germany, we find that local country reporting requirements are associated with a 4.3 percent higher likelihood of providing segment or enterprise-wide geographic disclosures of German operations and a 20.3 percent increase in discussions of German operations in the consolidated financials. Our analyses also reveal spillover effects, with MNEs with German subsidiaries also opting to provide more disclosures of operations in other European Union countries after the reform. Additional analyses indicate that results vary with regulator-based proprietary costs. We find that disclosure scrutiny prompts MNEs to provide more geographic disclosures after the public availability of subsidiary-level financials, whereas tax scrutiny inhibits enhanced disclosures. Collectively, our evidence suggests that local country reporting requirements play a significant role in enhancing geographic disclosures in consolidated financial statements.


Keywords: Segment reporting, geographic disclosure, disclosure frictions, regulatory scrutiny

JEL Classification: G18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Nerissa C. and Hutchens, Michelle and Osswald, Benjamin, Do Local Country Reporting Requirements Affect Parent Company Geographic Disclosures? (October 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4647222 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4647222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
H Akamah , O K Hope , W B Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 55 Posted: 2018
P G Berger , R N Hann
Segment profitability and the proprietary and agency costs of disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 869 - 906 Posted: 2007
D Bernard
Is the risk of product market predation a cost of disclosure?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 2-3 , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 2016
D Bernard , D Burgstahler , D Kaya
Size management by European private firms to minimize proprietary costs of disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 122 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,078
RANK
464,622
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies