Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Shifting and Profit Shifting of Chinese Multinational Enterprises

38 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2023

Xiangjun Ma

Liaoning University

wei tian

Peking University

Miaojie Yu

Liaoning University

Abstract

Multinational enterprises (MNEs) can shift profits across borders to minimize their global taxation. One implicit strategy is to shift the operating risk involved in internal transactions to countries with low tax rates. This paper studies the risk-shifting strategy and profit-shifting scale of Chinese MNEs, using micro data on manufacturing firms. We find that when the corporate tax rate differential between China and the foreign country rises by 10%, Chinese MNEs shift risk and profit to low tax rate affiliates, with the remaining risk in the Chinese parents decreasing by 9.7% from the mean value, and the remaining profit decreasing by 8.0%. The significant effect only exists among firms with high levels of intangible assets. We also estimate that the annual loss of corporate tax revenue in China is around $12 billion, which is 3.1% of the corporate tax base, lower than the estimates based on data on developed countries.

Keywords: Risk Shifting, Profit Shifting, Transfer Pricing, Multinational Enterprises, OFDI

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Xiangjun and tian, wei and Yu, Miaojie, Risk Shifting and Profit Shifting of Chinese Multinational Enterprises. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4653176 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4653176
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor Rights and Corporate Risk-Taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
C S Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive Stock Options, Differential Risk-Taking Incentives, and Firm Value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
E J Bartelsman , R M W J Beetsma
Why Pay More? Corporate Tax Avoidance through Transfer Pricing in OECD Countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 2225 - 2252 Posted: 2003
M Baumann , T Böhm , B Knoll , N Riedel
Corporate Taxes, Patent Shifting, and Anti-Avoidance Rules: Empirical Evidence
Public Finance Review , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 467 - 504 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
537
RANK
785,592
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies