Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Regulation in the European Union

54 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 29 Apr 2025

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Jochen Pierk

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: April 25, 2025

Abstract

We provide a comprehensive overview of accounting-related regulatory changes (financial accounting, auditing, tax, other disclosures) in the 27 EU countries and the UK since 1993 based on an extensive literature review, survey, and topic and country expert input. Across all countries and years, we find that more than sixteen regulatory events occur in a typical difference-in-difference research design that includes pre- and post-periods of four years. On average 3.4 out of 4 accounting disciplines are affected, emphasizing the need for interdisciplinary awareness. Our accompanying website (http://www.eu-regulations.com) offers visual representations of these events, regulation summaries, literature links, and source documents, all by country. This work aims to: (1) lower the cost for researchers, reviewers, and editors to understand the EU’s evolving regulatory landscape; (2) improve research designs by identifying concurrent regulatory events; and (3) highlight research opportunities for those studying the EU or specific Member States.


Keywords: accounting regulation, European Union, financial accounting, tax, auditing, disclosure regulation

Suggested Citation:

Labro, Eva and Pierk, Jochen, Accounting Regulation in the European Union (April 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4663683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4663683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
D Alexander , M Micallef
Accounting Regulation in Malta
Accounting in Europe , volume 8 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2011
P André
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules Evidence from European Countries
Accounting in Europe , volume 14 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2017
I Arafat , T Dunne , A H Ahmed
Splitting Accountability Hairs: Anomalies in the Adaptation of IFRS for SMEs in the UK and Ireland
Accounting in Europe , volume 17 , p. 183 - 203 Posted: 2020
C Armstrong , A Davila , G Foster
Venture-backed Private Equity Valuation and Financial Statement Information
Rev Acc Stud , volume 11 , p. 119 - 154 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
626
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,227
RANK
97,712
1 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies