Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drivers of IAS 36 Disclosure Quality – Evidence from European Listed Firms

ESCP Business School Research Paper

57 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2023

Stefano Coda

ESCP Business School

Christopher Hossfeld

ESCP Business School

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: July 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper reports on an analysis of IAS 36 disclosure quality using a large sample of data from listed firms in France, Germany, Italy and the UK. We find that geographical diversification is positively associated with disclosure quality. Firms choose higher levels of disclosure quality when IAS 36 disclosures are more important, for example when the firm recognized an impairment loss on goodwill, PPE or intangible assets and when goodwill is greater. Disclosure quality is also positively associated with institutional ownership, board size, and the country’s regulatory quality. Surprisingly, leverage, appointing a Big4 audit firm or firm size is not associated with disclosure quality. Disclosure quality varies cross-sectionally by industry and country/stock market index. Disclosure quality is lower in France compared to the other three countries, and surprisingly, this effect appears to be driven by firms in the French blue-chip stock-market indices (CAC 40, CAC Next 20), where disclosure quality is lower. Overall, however, the disclosure quality shows considerable room for improvement. As such, our findings have implications for securities regulators and audit firms. Our findings are also important for academics, as our large cross-country sample and our measure of disclosure quality provides evidence of the drivers of disclosure quality.

Keywords: Disclosure Quality, Disclosure Requirements, Drivers of disclosure quality, IAS 36, Impairment Losses

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Coda, Stefano and Hossfeld, Christopher and Schmidt, Martin, Drivers of IAS 36 Disclosure Quality – Evidence from European Listed Firms (July 1, 2023). ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4673390 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4673390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
( Abschlussprüferaufsichtstelle , Apas
Jahresbericht Posted: 2019
( Abschlussprüferaufsichtstelle , Apas
Jahresbericht Posted: 2020
( Abschlussprüferaufsichtstelle , Apas
Jahresbericht Posted: 2021
Acca
Worldwide application of IFRS 3, IAS 38 and IAS 36, related disclosures, and determinants of non-compliance Posted: 2014
Load more
1 Citations
Miluska Odely Rodriguez-Saavedra , Luis Gonzalo Barrera-Benavides , Alvaro Rafael Barrientos-Alfaro , Edwing Gonzalo Tapia-Meza , Candi Pastora Málaga-Dávila , Wilian Quispe-Nina , Ruben Washington Arguedas-Catasi
IAS 12, IAS 16 and IAS 36: Deferred taxes, depreciation and impairment of assets
Multidisciplinary Science Journal , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 2026133 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
694
RANK
464,622
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies