Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A comparison of direct listings and IPOs

Contemporary Accounting Research

49 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2023 Last revised: 8 Mar 2024

Anna Bergman Brown

Clarkson University

Donal Byard

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Jangwon Suh

CUNY Queens College

Date Written: December 22, 2023

Abstract

Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) and Direct Listings (DLs) offer two different mechanisms for firms to go public. In contrast to IPOs, DLs do not employ an underwriter or raise new capital. Using a sample of IPOs and DLs on major stock markets in the European Union (E.U.), we document that firms that choose to go public via DLs are larger, more profitable, and less levered, on average, than IPO firms. These pre-listing differences suggest that DL firms should be less risky than IPO firms; however, controlling for this selection effect, we find that DLs have higher aftermarket price volatility than IPOs. This is consistent with some policymakers’ concerns that, because they lack an underwriter, DLs expose investors to higher risk than IPOs in the immediate post-listing period. We show that this heightened price volatility persists, on average, for the first 20 trading days after listings, and is larger in industries where listed peer firms provide relatively low-quality disclosures. Our results provide new evidence regarding the types of firms that choose to list via DLs versus IPOs and the riskiness of IPOs versus DLs in the immediate postlisting period; additionally, our results are consistent with underwriters improving the quality of information available to investors for IPO firms in the pre-listing period.

Keywords: Direct Listings, Initial Public Offerings, Price Volatility, Peer Firm Disclosure Quality, Value Relevance of Accounting Disclosures

JEL Classification: G30, G38, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Anna Bergman and Byard, Donal and Suh, Jangwon, A comparison of direct listings and IPOs (December 22, 2023). Contemporary Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4673783 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4673783
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R Aggarwal
Stabilization activities by underwriters after initial public offerings
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 1075 - 1103 Posted: 2000
S Arif , E De George
The dark side of low financial reporting frequency: Investors' reliance on alternative sources of earnings news and excessive information spillovers
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 49 Posted: 2020
B Badertscher , N Shroff , N , H White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , issue 3 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAPbased accounting amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Matthias Lassak
Clustered IPOs as a Commitment Device
49 Pages · Posted: 14 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 20 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 94
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,998
RANK
138,019
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies