Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax and Globalization: Toward a New Social Contract

Oxford Journal of Legal Studies (forthcoming 2024)

27 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2024 Last revised: 27 Mar 2024

Tsilly Dagan

University of Oxford, Faculty of Law

Date Written: January 12, 2024

Abstract

Taxation and representation are famously linked in the coercive co-authored project of political governance described through the social contract metaphor. Globalization transforms this canonical account of the state. Many people can relocate and operate beyond state borders, consuming goods and services publicly offered by other jurisdictions. Expanding people’s opportunities to satisfy their preferences and pursue their goals supports their liberty. Yet, it also limits the ability of states to collect taxes so as to provide necessary public goods and secure justice, jeopardizing the bond between taxation and equal membership in a political community.

The challenge for taxation under globalization is to revitalize the very basis of the social contract. Ideally, the new social contract should support the states’ just institutions and the collective self-determination of their members without rolling back the opportunities people have acquired through globalization.


This article has been accepted for publication in the Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, published by Oxford University Press.

Keywords: Taxation, Globalization, Mobility, Fragmentation

Suggested Citation:

Dagan, Tsilly, Tax and Globalization: Toward a New Social Contract (January 12, 2024). Oxford Journal of Legal Studies (forthcoming 2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4693058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4693058
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Liam Murphy , Thomas Nagel
The Myth of Ownership (OUP 2002) 12; Michael Graetz and Deborah Schenk
Federal Income Taxation: Principles and Policies 25-27 , p. 825 - 828 Posted: 2002
Reuven Avi-Yonah
The Three Goals of Taxation' (2006-2007) 60
Tax L Rev , volume 1
Thomas Nagel
for example, often refers to coercion as both ensuring cooperation 'because it doesn't take many defectors to make such a system unravel' and, at the same time, requiring legitimation. Nagel contends that: 'The state makes unique demands on the will of its members […] and those exceptional demands bring with them exceptional obligations, the positive obligations of justice'; see Thomas Nagel
Philosophy & Public Affairs , volume 33 Posted: 2005
Andrea Sangiovanni
Global Justice, Reciprocity, and the State
15; see also Rainer Frost, The Right to Justification: Elements of a Constructivist Theory of Justice , volume 35 Posted: 2007
Load more
2 Citations
R. García Antón
Blueprint for Individual Income Taxation Reform in a Globalized World
, volume 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Daniel Kirui , Collins Kapkiyai , Amos Kipruto
Tax Service Quality and Tax Compliance among Small and Medium Enterprises in North Rift Economic Block, Kenya: A Moderated Mediation Model of Government Trust and Social Value Orientation
14 Pages · Posted: 14 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 144
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,207
RANK
222,859
2 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies