Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying Materiality Judgements

53 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2024

Nives Botica Redmayne

Massey University

Dimu Ehalaiye

Massey University - School of Accountancy

Fawad Ahmad

Massey University

Jude Edeigba

Colorado Mesa University

Fawzi Laswad

Massey University

Date Written: November 10, 2023

Abstract

This is a research report prepared for the New Zealand Accounting Standards Board (NZASB) of the External Reporting Board (XRB) on how the International Accounting Standards Board's (IASB's) requirements and guidance on materiality are applied to improve disclosures in general purpose financial statements.

Key findings:

There is a good understanding of the concept of materiality in New Zealand financial reporting practice.

IASB Documents/IFRS Practice Statement 2 — Making Materiality Judgements is known, but not referred to by New Zealand financial statement preparers (see next).

These preparers prefer using national guidance documents, especially those issued by New Zealand regulators, such as Financial Market Authority (FMA) (which references the IASB Documents/IFRS Practice Statement).

Auditors, as trusted advisors, play a role in reporting entities’ decisions on disclosure materiality.

The research shows an increase in disclosures by New Zealand reporting entities largely due to new standards requiring more detailed disclosures but also related to Covid-19 disclosures, sustainability and other non-financial disclosures.

There is a perceived cost associated with monitoring the level and quality of disclosures in financial statements by preparers.

Divergent views exist between financial statements preparers and regulators on the process of determining material disclosures – preparers are of the opinion, that their business knowledge underpins their appropriate processes, in spite of voluminous requirements in reporting standards; while regulators consider that the processes used by the preparers may at times result in lower quality information disclosures.

There is a high level of compliance with NZ IFRS 15 disclosure requirements in New Zealand, following the adoption of the new revenue standard. Of the observed revenue streams disclosures, type of goods or services and the market or customer type disclosures are predominant.

Keywords: Materiality, IASB, NZASB

JEL Classification: 500, M

Suggested Citation:

Botica Redmayne, Nives and Ehalaiye, Dimu and Ahmad, Fawad and Edeigba, Jude and Laswad, Fawzi, Applying Materiality Judgements (November 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4697553 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4697553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
References and Bibliography
S Abraham , P Shrives
Improving the relevance of risk factor disclosure in corporate annual reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 91 - 107 Posted: 2014
C C Ajekwe
Application of Professional Judgement in International Financial Reporting Standards
European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research , volume 10 , issue 8 , p. 17 - 30 Posted: 2022
M Bagnoli , T Godwin , S G Watts
On the Real Effects of Changes in Definitions of Materiality Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,005
RANK
454,090
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies