Twenty years of IFRS ‘success’? A systematic review of Scopus literature

, Erekle Pirveli, Jochen Zimmermann"> Twenty years of IFRS ‘success’? A systematic review of Scopus literature

">
Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Twenty years of IFRS ‘success’? A systematic review of Scopus literature

49 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2024 Last revised: 25 Jun 2025

Erekle Pirveli

Caucasus University

Jochen Zimmermann

University of Bremen - Chair of Accounting and Control; University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Date Written: June 25, 2025

Abstract

This study augments the literature by systematically reviewing market- and firm-level effects of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption over the past two decades. Drawing on 181 articles from the Scopus database, our meta-analysis applies multivariate regression and Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) to simultaneously examine the relationships between accounting quality, accounting comparability, market effects, and the findings of IFRS adoption. The results show predominantly positive effects on market outcomes, such as reduced forecast errors, increased investment flows, and improved market liquidity, whereas findings on accounting quality and comparability remain mixed. Crucially, SEM reveals that these market improvements are not primarily driven by fundamental accounting enhancements in either accounting quality or comparability. Instead, market effects exert a strong direct influence on IFRS findings, whereas accounting dimensions exhibit weaker direct and significantly negative indirect effects. These insights challenge the common assumption that market-level improvements stem from enhanced accounting fundamentals. By offering a structured and quantitative synthesis, this study strengthens methodological rigor in IFRS literature and informs future research on standard-setting outcomes.

Keywords: IFRS effects, accounting quality, accounting comparability, economic consequences, systematic literature review, meta-analysis

Suggested Citation:

Pirveli, Erekle and Zimmermann, Jochen and Zimmermann, Jochen,

Twenty years of IFRS ‘success’? A systematic review of Scopus literature

(June 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4699908 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4699908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
N M Abughazaleh , O M Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting discretion in goodwill impairments: UK evidence
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
K Ahmed , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A meta-analysis of IFRS adoption effects
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
The effect of mandatory IFRS adoption on conditional conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3-4 , p. 482 - 514 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,001
RANK
333,158
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies