Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Materiality in sustainability reporting according to the European Sustainability Reporting Standards - (What) does it matter?

11 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2024

Lars Moratis

University of Antwerp - Antwerp Management School

Luc Van Liedekerke

KU Leuven

Date Written: January 22, 2024

Abstract

As of January 2024 the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) will be in force. The CSRD is an elaboration of and replaces the already in 2014 adopted Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD) that requires over 10,000 large European companies to report about non-financial aspects, notably sustainability, in addition to their financial annual report.

The idea is to enhance transparency and accountability as to prevent greenwashing and encourage companies to increase their sustainability efforts in order to contribute to the European Green Deal agenda. The scope of CSRD reaches beyond this, though. Some 50,000 European companies will gradually, starting from reporting year 2024, have to comply with the requirements laid down within the CSRD – and the scope of the CSRD will increase in the course of time and include non-European companies that have business operations in Europe as well.

Against the backdrop of creating a worldwide standard or minimum threshold for sustainability in general and more specifically for sustainability reporting, the CSRD comprises a set of rather detailed reporting guidelines. These guidelines are known as the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) and were adopted by the European Commission in July 2023.

Globally speaking, the ESRS are, both in spirit and contents, comparable to other standards for sustainability reporting, such as those of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition to general corporate information the ESRS require companies to report in a detailed fashion by providing quantitative and qualitative information about environmental aspects, social aspects, and governance aspects that have been grouped into two general standards and 10 topical standards.
The concept of materiality, notably the concept of double materiality, is a key part of the ESRS.

Through a materiality assessment, companies need to determine which parts of the ESRS are the most relevant or important to both them and their stakeholders. Although the principle of materiality has been a mainstream starting point within accountancy practice and has developed into a cornerstone for non-financial reporting, this principle is not as evident, straightforward, and objective as it may seem, especially when it comes to sustainability-related information. Companies, for example, have a lot of degrees of freedom when assessing materiality. In addition, materiality is not a static concept. This may compromise the value of materiality assessments for both companies and their stakeholders.

The objective of this paper is to clarify the principle of (double) materiality as it has taken center stage within the ESRS, and investigate where potential problems for companies and the practice of sustainability reporting may reside. In doing so, we discuss the process of assessing materiality in more depth and reflect on the consequences of the normativity that is inherent to the materiality concept. We end this paper with several conclusions and implications based on our analysis and findings.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Sustainability, ESRS, Materiality, Double Materiality, Normativity, Stakeholders

JEL Classification: M14, M16, M40

Suggested Citation:

Moratis, Lars and Van Liedekerke, Luc, Materiality in sustainability reporting according to the European Sustainability Reporting Standards - (What) does it matter? (January 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4702851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4702851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
AA1000 Accountability Principles Posted: 2018
D Allison-Hope , P Muñoz Quick , C Bancilhon
Impact-based materiality Posted: 2022
R Eccles , M Krzus , S Ribot
The integrated repor ng movement: Meaning, momentum, mo ves, and materiality Posted: 2014
Annex to the Commission Delegated Regula on (EU) supplemen ng Direc ve 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards sustainability repor ng standards Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
616
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,247
RANK
99,786
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies