Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of the Informativeness of the Dual-Classification System for Lessees

80 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2024 Last revised: 4 Mar 2025

Derek Christensen

University of Oregon

Date Written: February 28, 2025

Abstract

In 2016, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) updated their accounting rules for lease transactions. In their updates, the IASB removed the dual-classification system that requires lessees to distinguish between finance and operating leases, while the FASB did not. In this study, I investigate whether the dual-classification system is informative to equity investors. Using a cross-country research design, I find the system is informative when bankruptcy and tax laws distinguish between leases in a manner that mirrors accounting. However, I do not find the system is informative in the absence of these legal distinctions. Results from a supplementary, within-country research design corroborate this conclusion. The findings from this study provide useful information for the IASB and FASB as they complete their post-implementation reviews of the lease accounting updates. They also highlight the intricate relationship between accounting rules and countries’ legal environments.

Keywords: lease accounting, IFRS 16, ASU 2016-02, ASC 842, information asymmetry, bid-ask spread, bankruptcy, taxes, dual classification

JEL Classification: D82, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Derek, An Evaluation of the Informativeness of the Dual-Classification System for Lessees (February 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4712480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4712480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
B
CIK 0001668673): Disclosures Before ASU 2016-02 Adoption Leases Note Property, Plant, and Equipment Note Principal Business Activity and Significant Accounting Policies Note
E Advis , S Banerjee
Clear and liquid: The interaction of firm disclosure and trader competition Posted: 2019
J Altumaro , R Johnston , S Pandit , H Zhang
Operating leases and credit assessments
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,002
RANK
308,936
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies