Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income from International Private Employment

IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 12. IBFD, 2007.

Posted: 28 Feb 2024

Frank Pötgens

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 1, 2007

Abstract

This study considers the treatment of income from private employment under tax treaties containing provisions analogous or similar to Article 15 of the OECD Model.

This study considers the treatment of income from private employment under tax treaties containing provisions analogous or similar to Article 15 of the OECD Model. It offers an in-depth analysis of these provisions as well as suggestions for improvements in the application and interpretation.

It approaches the analysis of Article 15 of the OECD Model from the perspective of five key countries: Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States. By analysing case law, legal literature and official policy statements of these countries' respective tax authorities, the study also describes potential difficulties.

An overview is provided of the various interpretations and explanations employed in these countries, which is also used by the author in developing a preferred interpretation of a term at issue.

Full book

Keywords: OECD Model, employment income, tax treaty, history of taxation, services, employee stock options, severance payment

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Pötgens, Frank, Income from International Private Employment (January 1, 2007). IBFD Doctoral Series; Vol. 12. IBFD, 2007., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4719690
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
112
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies