Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Comparability and Analysts’ Optimism for Accruals

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2024

Bryan Byung-Hee Lee

Korea University, Sejong

Jay Junghun Lee

University of Massachusetts Boston

Date Written: December 22, 2023

Abstract

This study examines the role of financial statement comparability in mitigating analysts’ optimism for accruals. Prior research shows that sell-side analysts do not fully incorporate accrual information in anticipating future earnings and thus tend to issue more optimistic forecasts for firms with a higher level of accruals. We posit that financial statement comparability allows analysts to use industry peers’ information in assessing the persistence of accruals, thereby lowering their optimism for accruals. We find that analysts’ accrual-related optimism is significantly moderated for firms with a high degree of financial statement comparability. Further, we disaggregate financial statement comparability into accrual comparability and cash flow comparability and find that the inverse relation between comparability and analysts’ optimism for accruals is driven by accrual comparability rather than cash flow comparability. Moreover, exploiting the mandatory adoption of IFRS as an exogenous increase in comparability, we find that analysts’ optimism for accruals decreases significantly following the IFRS adoption while it does not show a significant change in non- IFRS-adopting countries during the same period. Collectively, the results suggest that financial statement comparability helps analysts process and interpret accrual information, thereby improving their forecasting activities.

Keywords: Financial statement comparability, accrual-related optimism, analysts’ forecast errors, accrual comparability, cash flow comparability

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Bryan Byung-Hee and Lee, Jay Junghun, Financial Statement Comparability and Analysts’ Optimism for Accruals (December 22, 2023). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4721529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
J Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991
J Abarbanell , V Bernard
Tests of analysts' overreaction/underreaction to earnings information as an explanation for anomalous stock price behavior
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 1181 - 1207 Posted: 1992
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Biased forecasts or biased earnings? The role of reported earnings in explaining apparent bias and over/underreaction in analysts' earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 105 - 146 Posted: 2003
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Letting the "tail wag the dog": The debate over GAAP versus street earnings revisited , volume 24 , p. 675 - 723 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
667
RANK
429,779
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies