Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Standing on the Shoulders of Giants: Financial Reporting Comparability and Knowledge Accumulation

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2024 Last revised: 9 Feb 2025

Kevin Tseng

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Rong (Irene) Zhong

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 10, 2024

Abstract

This study examines whether and how financial statement comparability facilitates the dissemination of innovative knowledge between firms and stimulates the creation of new knowledge. Using cross-patent citations to track interfirm knowledge transfers, we find that comparability increases firms’ incentives to learn from peers and create new patents that cite their peers’ existing patents. The investigation into the mechanism reveals that comparability improves firms’ ability to estimate the monetary value of peer knowledge and predict their own financial benefits from knowledge acquisition. The impact of comparability is more pronounced when peer knowledge is more publicly accessible or of higher monetary value. Consequently, the acquired knowledge fosters follow-on innovation, enabling firms to produce more patents with greater economic significance. Evidence from two quasi-natural experiments suggests that our findings are plausibly causal. Overall, our study highlights the important role of accounting comparability in facilitating knowledge dissemination.

Keywords: innovation, patent valuation, externality, knowledge spillover, knowledge dissemination

JEL Classification: D83, M40, M41, O33

Suggested Citation:

Tseng, Kevin and Zhong, Rong (Irene), Standing on the Shoulders of Giants: Financial Reporting Comparability and Knowledge Accumulation (February 10, 2024). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4722098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
P Aghion , P Howitt , A Agrawal , A Galasso , A Oettl
A model of growth through creative destruction
Roads and innovation. Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 60 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 1992
P Azoulay , J S Graff Zivin , J Wang
Superstar extinction
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , p. 549 - 589 Posted: 2010
B Badertscher , N Shroff , H D White
Externalities of public firm presence: Evidence from private firms' investment decisions
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 682 - 706 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,524
RANK
238,435
5 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies