Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability reporting and the role of stock exchanges: Evidence from the TCFD recommendations

37 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2024

Anna Husmann

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing

Date Written: February 15, 2024

Abstract

This study examines stock exchanges’ role in promoting the adoption of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. It analyses a sample of 10,476 companies headquartered in the European Union, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Switzerland and listed on 39 stock exchanges. The results suggest that exchanges fulfil some but a rather weak quasi-regulatory role: Although not part of an explicit governmental regulation, companies are more likely to support the TCFD when listed on an exchange that declared support itself. In that case, the entry barrier is lower due to low effort and negligible costs. In contrast, the entry barrier to publish a TCFD report involves higher costs, which may deter firms from doing so. Furthermore, the results indicate that visible companies (larger firm size) and those with relatively low effort in adopting the TCFD (higher environmental performance) are more likely to support the initiative. The results provide some but no strong support for the Sustainable Stock Exchange initiative’s approach, focusing on stock exchanges to advance markets’ climate resiliency.

Keywords: TCFD; Stock Exchanges; Quasi-Regulatory; Sustainability Commitment; Sustainability Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Husmann, Anna, Sustainability reporting and the role of stock exchanges: Evidence from the TCFD recommendations (February 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4727723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4727723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A Ali , L.-S Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
S Arvidsson
Communication of Corporate Social Responsibility: A Study of the Views of Management Teams in Large Companies
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 339 - 354 Posted: 2010
Codes and Co-regulation Posted: 2019
M E Barth , S F Cahan , L Chen , E R Venter
The economic consequences associated with integrated report quality: Capital market and real effects , volume 62 , p. 43 - 64 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
802
RANK
399,022
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies