Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Report on Australian Listed Companies' Readiness for IFRS S2 Climate-Related Disclosures

AASB Research Centre Working Paper No. 24-01

69 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2024 Last revised: 25 Mar 2024

Christine Jubb

Swinburne University of Technology

Zihan Liu

University of Otago

Date Written: February 14, 2024

Abstract

Purpose: Aligned with the future-oriented theme of the Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) 2023 Research Forum, this study investigates Australian listed companies' readiness for climate-related, future-oriented disclosures to gauge their readiness to adopt International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures.

Method: Using Leximancer text analytic software 1,697 listed companies' annual reports, corporate governance statements and sustainability reports or equivalent for 2022 are analysed by GICS industry sector based on the key IFRS S2 future-oriented concepts of ‘connectivity’, ‘scenario analysis’, ‘targets’ and ‘time horizon’.

Four Future-Oriented Concepts Examined: ‘Connectivity’, ‘scenario analysis’, ‘targets’, and ‘time horizons’. We define ‘connectivity’ as information about the impact of climate-related disclosure on some aspect of the value of the company. We also examine connectivity in terms of financial statement-located disclosures compared with other locations in the three document categories we gather for examination. ‘Scenario analysis’ and ‘targets’ are self-explanatory. ‘Time horizons’ refers to the short, medium and long-term.

Quantity and Quality of Disclosures: We create measures for the quantity and quality of climate-related disclosure and report these by industry sector and industry environmental sensitivity grouping, noting that the quantity measure in particular captures potential greenwashing.

Findings: Overall, our findings reveal a disappointingly low incidence of key future-oriented concept disclosures, particularly for ‘time horizon’. Surprisingly, our disclosure quality measure reveals that non-environmentally sensitive industries tend to outperform environmentally sensitive industries on climate-related, future-oriented disclosures but for the quantity measure, the situation is reversed.

Conclusion: One might have expected companies in industries most contributing to climate change to provide superior quality disclosures compared with their counterparts. A value judgement as to whether quality or quantity in disclosures is most valued might be needed from auditors and regulators in enforcing disclosures.

Suggested Citation:

Jubb, Christine and Liu, Zihan, Report on Australian Listed Companies' Readiness for IFRS S2 Climate-Related Disclosures (February 14, 2024). AASB Research Centre Working Paper No. 24-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4744219 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4744219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
C Armour
Managing climate risk for directors
Company Director Magazine Posted: 2021
Promises, pathways & performance: Climate change disclosure in the ASX200 Posted: 2020
Promises, pathways & performance: Climate change disclosure in the ASX200 Posted: 2021
Promises, pathways & performance: Climate change disclosure in the ASX200 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
803
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,418
RANK
70,778
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies