Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Research Note on the Consultation Paper on Sustainability Reporting Issued by the IFRS Foundation

20 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2024

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 6, 2024

Abstract

Despite COVID 19, which has put the world in chains against progress, the IFRS Foundation issued its long
debated consultation paper on sustainability reporting. Year 20 should have been the year of sustainability; however it is
expected once the pandemic is under control, that the agenda revamps towards sustainability again. What are the factors to
achieve a sustainability with stable economic markets? In the aftermath of the 2008/09 world financial downturn the interest
in understanding non-financial factors and interplay to financial markets increased. A system can only be sustainable if
inequality, governance and environmental sustainability is surmounted. According to Beyer et al., significant progress was
made in the modelling, as the Global Financial Crisis revealed shortcomings in the model strategy (Beyer et al., 2017). The
question arises what role the International Accounting Standard Board can play in order to reduce complexity on
sustainability reporting. Based on the double materiality concept introduced by the EU Commission Non-financial Reporting
Update (NFRD) however issues which are material to environmental and social objectives can have financial material
impact. A financial impact needs to be measurable and usually is measured by Key Performance Indicators (KPI) or metrics,
The question how this topic is addressed by the IFRS Foundation. In addition to that the World Economic Forum (WEF)
has published a letter to CEOs in support of the organizations’ working to achieve a globally accepted set of environmental,
social and governance (ESG) reporting standards, particularly the creation of a Sustainability Standards Board (SSB) being
led by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation. To overcome the climate change challenge, a
consensus has a pivotal role to enable to invest in climate friendly investments, which do not turn out to be a false labelling.
They lay out three key steps: first, an independent standard setting body – namely the SSB – should develop ESG standards
that can be adopted worldwide. Second, regulatory authorities must endorse their use; here the support of the International
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) is invaluable. Finally, the IFRS standard setting process should build on
the main reporting initiatives already in use; to this end WEF will continue to work closely with leading sustainability. This
research note assesses and comments deliverables from the IFRS Foundation and put it into the overall development of
sustainability reporting. The IFRS Foundation has all possibilities to become also the global number one for the development
of standard in sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, A Research Note on the Consultation Paper on Sustainability Reporting Issued by the IFRS Foundation (March 6, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4750550 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4750550
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
C Ailman , M Edkins , K Mitchem , T Eliopoulos , J Guillot
The next wave of ESG integration: Lessons from institutional investors
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 29 , p. 32 - 43 Posted: 2017
Tag -You're It! GRI Releases XBRL Taxonomies
ANONYMOUS 2007 , volume 18 , p. 1 - 6
G Aras , D Crowther
Corporate sustainability reporting: a study in disingenuity
Journal of business ethics , volume 87 Posted: 2009
D Beerbaum
Towards an XBRL-enabled corporate governance reporting taxonomy. An empirical study of NYSE-listed Financial Institutions Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
494
RANK
736,113
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies