Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Relationship between Financial Distress and ESG Scores

58 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2024 Last revised: 12 Jul 2025

Christian Lohmann

University of Wuppertal

Steffen Möllenhoff

University of Wuppertal

Sebastian Lehner

University of Wuppertal

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

This empirical study analyzes the relationship between a company’s financial distress obtained from a bankruptcy prediction model and ESG scores from Refinitiv, MSCI, ESG Book, and Moody’s ESG. Applying nonparametric regression technique on panel data of listed US companies for 2003–2022 reveals a pronounced and statistically significant U-shaped relationship between financial distress and ESG scores. Financially distressed companies exhibit high ESG scores. Empirical evidence shows that the high ESG scores of financially distressed companies cannot be explained by past capital expenditures and R&D expenditures or by the actual energy intensity of a company’s revenue, but that it is significantly related to a company’s stakeholder orientation in its 10-K filings. The most plausible interpretation is that companies anticipate their upcoming financial distress and intensify ESG-supporting disclosures to manage their ESG scores upward. The empirically observable, systematic management of ESG scores by the group of financially distressed companies reduces the validity and credibility of ESG scores and makes it imperative to consider the degree of a company’s financial distress when interpreting ESG scores.

Keywords: ESG, ESG score, Financial distress, Nonparametric regression, Measure of bankruptcy risk, Stakeholder orientation

JEL Classification: C33, G33, M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Lohmann, Christian and Möllenhoff, Steffen and Lehner, Sebastian, On the Relationship between Financial Distress and ESG Scores (June 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4751503 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4751503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
N Agarwala , S Jana , T N Sahu
ESG disclosures and corporate performance: A non-linear and disaggregated approach
Journal of Cleaner Production , p. 437 - 140517 Posted: 2024
S Agrawal , L Y Liu , S Rajgopal , S A Sridharan , Y Yan , T L Yohn
ESG ratings of ESG index providers
, issue 4468531 Posted: 2023
W I Almubarak , K Chebbi , M A Ammer
Unveiling the connection among ESG, earnings management, and financial distress: Insights from an emerging market
Article 12348 , volume 15 Posted: 2023
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
630
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,004
RANK
96,929
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies