Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loan Loss Provisions and Income Smoothing in Banks: The Role of Trade Openness and IFRS in BRICS

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2024

26 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2024

Sarit Biswas

Indian Institute of Management Shillong

Sharad Nath Bhattacharya

Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Shillong; Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Shillong

Justin Yiqiang Jin

McMaster University - DeGroote School of Business

Mousami Bhattacharya

Indian Institute of Management, Mayurbhanj Complex, Nongthymmai

Pradip H. Sadarangani

Indian Institute of Management Shillong

Date Written: March 1, 2024

Abstract

Purpose
This paper empirically investigates whether trade openness (TO) in Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS) countries affects how banks might employ loan loss provisions (LLPs) to smooth out their earnings and how adopting the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) can mitigate it.

Design/methodology/approach
The analysis includes 78 commercial banks from five BRICS nations and spans 2014 through 2020. To test these hypotheses, the authors utilized a fixed-effect and two-step system panel generalized methods of moments (GMM) estimator.

Findings
TO positively affects income smoothing (earnings management) across BRICS commercial banks. The effect is clearer in banks that make financial reports under the IFRS. Path analysis reveals that the effect of TO is driven by nonperforming loans (NPLs). Additionally, the IFRS restricts earnings management in the BRICS banking sector when a better institutional environment is present. The authors found that accounting rules (IFRS) and enforcement (better institutional settings) interact to enhance earnings’ quality.

Practical implications
The relationship between TO and bank earnings management practices is important for understanding the complex interplay between trade and finance and ensuring financial stability, investor confidence and regulatory compliance. This study recommends better regulations and governance mechanisms for financial reports in emerging nations like BRICS. Additionally, macro-prudential regulators and banking supervisors should work closely to ensure transparent TO decisions with improved discipline, institutional quality and regulatory support to enhance bank stability.

Originality/value
The study finds evidence of bank income smoothing in the BRICS and introduces TO as a determinant. It also identifies the evolving role of IFRS in the presence of higher institutional quality and TO, thereby expanding the financial reporting literature.

Keywords: Earnings management, Trade openness, Loan loss provisions, BRICS, IFRS, Bank

JEL Classification: F40, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Biswas, Sarit and Bhattacharya, Sharad Nath and Jin, Justin Y. and Bhattacharya, Mousami and Sadarangani, Pradip H., Loan Loss Provisions and Income Smoothing in Banks: The Role of Trade Openness and IFRS in BRICS (March 1, 2024). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4751018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
V V Acharya , B M Lambrecht
A theory of income smoothing when insiders know more than outsiders
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 9 , p. 2534 - 2574 Posted: 2015
S Agbodjo , K Toumi , K Hussainey
Accounting standards and value relevance of accounting information: A comparative analysis between Islamic, conventional and hybrid banks
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 168 - 193 Posted: 2021
N Alam , J Ramachandran , A H Nahomy
The impact of corporate governance and agency effect on earnings management-A test of the dual banking system
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 54 Posted: 2020
S Alamgir Hossain , S Moudud-Ul-Huq , M B Kader
Impact of trade openness on bank risk-taking behavior: Evidence from a developing country
Cogent Economics and Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 Posted: 2020
Load more
1 Citations
Peterson K Ozili
Bank Loan Loss Provisions Determinants in Non-Crisis Years: Evidence From African, European, and Asian Countries
Ozili, P. K. (2024). Bank Loan Loss Provision Determinants in Non-Crisis Years: Evidence from African, European, and Asian Countries. Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 17(3), 115. · 23 Pages · Posted: 1 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 47
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
785
RANK
805,836
1 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Governance, Incentives & Compensation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies