Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of IFRS on Loan Spreads for Private Finance Initiative

64 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2024

Demi Chung

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting

Gary S. Monroe

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Leonard Leye Li

UNSW Sydney

Abstract

The paper studies the effect of IFRS adoption by the UK Government on loan spreads for Private Finance Initiative (PFI) projects. In contrast to evidence widely cited in the IFRS literature where the enhanced reporting transparency is associated with lower cost of capital, we observe that the financing cost on PFIs increased after the IFRS implementation. The effect is more pronounced for governments who had the inherent motive to evade budgetary processes and governments with lower fiscal affordability. The inhere motive effect is even stronger for governments with higher reliance on PFIs prior to the adoption. The evidence suggests that enhanced transparency has corrected the much-distorted outcome that the capital market experienced prior to the IFRS implementation even in a country with strong credit ratings and a powerful standard setting regime. With the continuous uprise demand for public infrastructure worldwide, our study offers timely and valuable insights on infrastructure finance through private provision.

Keywords: IFRS, IPSAS 32, IFRIC12, Project Finance Initiative, Public Private Partnerships, infrastructure financing, loan pricing, government accounting

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Demi and Monroe, Gary S. and Li, Leonard Leye, The Effect of IFRS on Loan Spreads for Private Finance Initiative. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4762332 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4762332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
F S Ahiabor , G A James
Domestic lead arranger certification and the pricing of project finance loans
International Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 167 Posted: 2019
J Altamuro , R Johnston , S Pandit , H Zhang
Operating leases and credit assessments
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2014
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 249 Posted: 1986
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Application Note F -Private Finance Initiative and Similar Contracts, Accounting Standards Board , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
470
RANK
841,621
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies