Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

A REVIEW OF MATERIALITY RESEARCH IN AUDITING AND ASSURANCE SERVICES

81 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Eva Litlabø

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Aasmund Eilifsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: February 15, 2025

Abstract

Materiality is a fundamental concept of auditing. Regulatory changes and improved data availability have motivated renewed interest in research on auditors’ materiality judgments. This literature review synthesizes and summarizes the empirical research on materiality related to financial statement audits, internal control audits, and sustainability assurance since the Messier, Martinov‐Bennie, and Eilifsen (2005) review. The review offers insights into auditors’ materiality judgments that are important to regulators, standard setters, practitioners, and researchers, and identifies areas for future research.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Litlabø, Eva and Eilifsen, Aasmund and Messier Jr, William F.,

A REVIEW OF MATERIALITY RESEARCH IN AUDITING AND ASSURANCE SERVICES

(February 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4763606 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4763606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
The materiality of accounting errors: Evidence from SEC comment letters
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 839 - 868 Posted: 2019
E C Altiero , Y J Kang , M E Peecher
Motivated perspective taking: Why prompting auditors to take an investor's perspective makes them treat identified audit differences as less material
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 339 - 370 Posted: 2022
Materiality considerations for attestation engagements involving aspects of subject matters that cannot be quantitatively measured Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,526
RANK
177,685
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies