Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profit Attribution Under IFRS: Beware of Hybrid Bond Issuers

41 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2024

Jia En Neoh

Nagoya University

Date Written: February 22, 2024

Abstract

Consistent profit attribution ensures comparability of profit attributable to equity owners (owners’ profit) and of profit attributable to ordinary shareholders used in computing earnings per share (EPS). However, the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) provides limited guidance on attributing profit to non-ordinary equities, while the Chinese Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises (ASBE) is supplemented by clarifications on such matters. Considering the lack of studies on the occurrence risk of accounting errors in owners’ profit and EPS, this study explores whether issuers of hybrid bonds classified as equity (hybrids) and their parent companies following IFRS or equivalent standards, compared to those following ASBE, are more or less likely to include profit attributable to hybrids (hybrids’ profit) in owners’ profit and EPS. Samples of publicly-listed hybrids issuers and parent companies are systematically identified from Bloomberg’s global list of outstanding hybrids issued by non-financial corporations, and their treatment of hybrids’ profit is determined by examining audited financial statements available as at March 2023. Analyses using Fisher’s exact test show that parent companies following IFRS are more likely to include profit attributable to hybrids held by non-controlling interests in owners’ profit, while Bootstrap Welch t-tests show that the amount of EPS reported by hybrids issuers and parent companies following IFRS contains relatively more hybrids’ profit. Given the importance of owners’ profit and EPS, auditors and investors ought to exercise extra care when auditing or utilizing these two figures reported by hybrids issuers and their parent companies that follow IFRS.

Keywords: accounting errors, audit risk, earnings per share, hybrid bonds, non-controlling interests, profit attribution

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Neoh, Jia En, Profit Attribution Under IFRS: Beware of Hybrid Bond Issuers (February 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4763067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4763067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Acra
SFRS(I) 10: Consolidated Financial Statements Posted: 2021-03-26
Acra
SFRS(I) 1-33: Earnings per Share Posted: 2021-03-26
Acra
Practice Guidance Posted: 2024-02-22
K.-H Bae , S W Jeong
The Value-relevance of Earnings and Book Value, Ownership Structure, and Business Group Affiliation: Evidence From Korean Business Groups
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue 5 , p. 740 - 766 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
858
RANK
697,815
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies