Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country-Level Loss Aversion and the Market Response to Earnings News

60 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024 Last revised: 15 Apr 2024

Michael Neel

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 21, 2024

Abstract

I examine whether country-level loss aversion influences stock price sensitivity to negative earnings news vis-à-vis positive earnings news. Using two recently developed country-level measures of loss aversion, I find that the stock price sensitivity to bad earnings news is higher in high loss-aversion countries than in low loss aversion countries. In contrast, the stock price sensitivity to good earnings news is generally unassociated with loss aversion. Thus, there is an intuitive asymmetry in how loss aversion impacts the market response to negative news relative to positive news. Consistent with the earnings announcement returns, further analysis reveals that a subsequent return drift to extreme bad news (i.e., PEAD) is present among low loss-aversion countries but not high loss-aversion countries, suggesting that loss averse investors more fully incorporate bad earnings news into stock prices. In contrast, the return drift to extreme positive news is detectable regardless of the level of loss aversion. Additional analysis also suggests that the influence of loss aversion on the market response to earnings news does not reflect differences in the informativeness of earnings news for future net income and cash flow performance. This influence of loss aversion is also more pronounced in countries with a short-term orientation, which should exacerbate loss aversion, and in countries that Hofstede (2001) characterizes as more restrained. In these countries, investors should be less accustomed to corporate risk-taking.

Keywords: loss aversion, unexpected earnings, earnings response coefficient (ERC), financial reporting

JEL Classification: G41, H32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Neel, Michael, Country-Level Loss Aversion and the Market Response to Earnings News (March 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4768248 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4768248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
S Aggarwal , I-M Chiu , C Liu , S Rhee
The brokerage effect in herding: Evidence from Indonesia
Journal of Financial Research , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 461 - 479 Posted: 2011
A Alipour , A Yaprak
Indulgence and risk-taking behavior of firms: Direct and interactive influences
Journal of International Management , volume 28 , issue 2 Posted: 2022
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
N Barberis , M Huang , T Santos
Prospect theory and asset prices
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 116 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 53 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
741
RANK
493,078
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies