Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Action Plan on Developing Countries

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 2 ; p. 84-92; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/29anss6

Posted: 29 Mar 2024

Leonard Wagenaar

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 12, 2015

Abstract

In this article, the author describes some of the typical features of tax systems of developing countries and discusses how the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Initiative affects such countries and their tax systems, including: strengthen framework and enforceability of international tax framework (Actions 5, 11, 12, 14 and 15); strengthen CFC rules (Action 3); limit base erosion through related-party deductions (Actions 2 and 4); preventing treaty abuse (Action 6); prevent the artificial avoidance of the PE status (Action 7); transfer-pricing-related actions (Actions 1, 8, 9, 10 and 13).

Full-text Paper

Keywords: BEPS, developing countries, harmful tax competition, CFC, deductions, treaty benefits, PE, transfer pricing

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Wagenaar, Leonard, The Effect of the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Action Plan on Developing Countries (January 12, 2015). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 2 ; p. 84-92; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/29anss6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774559
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
58
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies