Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Change of Paradigm in International Tax Law: Article 7 of Treaties and the Need to Resolve the Source Versus Residence Dichotomy

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 3 ; 12 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1g95w25

Posted: 5 Apr 2024

João Francisco Bianco

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ramon Tomazela Santos

Independent

Date Written: February 24, 2016

Abstract

The authors, in this article, consider the problem of, and the potential solution to, the need to resolve the dichotomy between source and residence taxation with regard to international taxation and tax treaties.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: source principle of taxation, residence principle of taxation, tax treaty

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Bianco, João Francisco and Tomazela Santos, Ramon, A Change of Paradigm in International Tax Law: Article 7 of Treaties and the Need to Resolve the Source Versus Residence Dichotomy (February 24, 2016). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 3 ; 12 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1g95w25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776170
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
47
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies