Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harmonising Accounting for Extractive Industries: Measuring Levels of Harmony in Accounting for Pre-Development Costs

53 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2024

Hafez Abdo

University of Nottingham

Freeman Brobbey Owusu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Warrick Van Zyl

The University of Western Australia

Abstract

Accounting by extractive industries (EI) has historically faced diversity and lack of comparability. Several attempts have been made to standardise accounting practice within EI, but the extent of differences, variations within methods and the lobbying power of EI firms tend to hinder harmonisation attempts. IFRS 6 was introduced in 2004 as a temporary standard and, in its current form, does not result in consistent accounting practices among EI firms. Our study seeks to establish an alternative route to the harmonisation of accounting practice in this industry. We used H and BMC concentration indices to measure the level of harmony of accounting practices of 545 extractive companies listed in four countries: the UK, Australia, Canada, and South Africa. Using these indices allows us to confirm diversity in accounting practices within and between methods, but, importantly, to also identify areas of commonality within the global industry. Our suggested measures towards harmonisation include withdrawing the full cost and the cost written off and capitalise methods, capitalising all acquisition, exploration and evaluation costs pending a decision on commercial viability, and expensing all prospecting costs. Reducing alternative accounting practices within and across accounting methods and improving disclosure practice will enhance the comparability of EI accounts.

Keywords: AccountingExtractive IndustriesHarmonisationStandardisationIFRS 6

Suggested Citation:

Abdo, Hafez and Owusu, Freeman Brobbey and Van Zyl, Warrick, Harmonising Accounting for Extractive Industries: Measuring Levels of Harmony in Accounting for Pre-Development Costs. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4779309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4779309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
350
RANK
826,938
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies