Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
R&D disclosures and the informativeness of future earnings

Forthcoming in ABACUS

68 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2024 Last revised: 5 Mar 2025

Francesco Mazzi

University of Florence - Department of Business Economics

Richard Slack

Durham Business School

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Fanis Tsoligkas

University of Bath - School of Management

Date Written: March 05, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the effect of R&D related disclosures on the informativeness of share prices about future earnings. Considering the importance of R&D to companies, but mindful of its inherently uncertain nature, R&D disclosure is an important source of information for investors to assess the future prospects of the firm. Using a sample of 6,490 firm-year observations reporting under IFRS from 15 countries over a 10-year period, we show that R&D disclosure conveys information about future earnings, which is incorporated in current returns. Thus, R&D disclosure allows investors to better anticipate future earnings. We find that this result is driven by disclosures in the narratives section of the annual report, which includes the management discussion section. In additional tests, we inter alia show that these findings are primarily driven from firms capitalizing development costs and they are not dependent on the level of stringency of national regulations about R&D disclosures in the narrative section of the annual reports. This is the first study to consider whether R&D related disclosure assists investors in better anticipating future earnings and thus contributes to the accounting literature and raises important policy implications.

Keywords: Research and development, R&D, disclosures, IAS 38, IFRS

JEL Classification: O30, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mazzi, Francesco and Slack, Richard and Tsalavoutas, Ioannis and Tsoligkas, Fanis, R&D disclosures and the informativeness of future earnings (March 05, 2025). Forthcoming in ABACUS, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4779613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4779613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
Accounting Standards Committee of Germany (ASCG)
Management Reporting , volume 15 Posted: 2004
K S Almaghrabi , R Slack , I Tsalavoutas , F Tsoligkas
Capitalized development costs and future cash flows: The effect of CEO overconfidence and board gender diversity
The British Accounting Review Posted: 2024
E Amir , Y Guan , G Livne
The association of R&D and capital expenditures with subsequent earnings variability
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue 1-2 , p. 222 - 246 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
338
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,792
RANK
204,172
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies