Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Regulation and Management Control Systems

77 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jacobo Gomez-Conde

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid - Accounting Department

Araceli Mora

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 05, 2024

Abstract

We argue that the adoption of financial reporting standards leads to changes in information technology (IT) and management control systems (MCS). We further predict that such regulatory-driven exogenous variation in IT and MCS affects internal information production, and therefore, firm outcomes. We examine this unexplored consequence of accounting regulation by studying the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Our evidence, collected from interviews with key stakeholders as well as survey data, provides granular descriptive evidence confirming that the implementation of new IFRS leads to changes in IT and MCS. Using a difference-in-differences methodology, we document consequences of these changes over accounting and control procedures, managers internal information sets and their decision making, with effects on firm performance. Matching our survey data to archival public data, we confirm that these results generalize to a larger sample of companies worldwide. Our results uncover novel consequences of accounting standards implementation, via their impact on IT and MCS. This adds to our understanding of post-implementation reviews and cost-benefit analyses.

Keywords: Externalities of financial reporting, MCS change, Post-implementation review, Regulatory cost-benefit analysis

JEL Classification: M41, M15, M48

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Gomez-Conde, Jacobo and Mora, Araceli, Financial Reporting Regulation and Management Control Systems (August 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4781741 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4781741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Agriculture
Manufacturing (except Engineering & industrials and Life sci
000 Financial and insurance activities
Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply
Load more
1 Citations
Elisabetta Barone , Stephani Mason , Araceli Mora , David Procházka
Changing the paradigm for revenue recognition: literature review on intended and unintended effects of IFRS 15 and ASC 606
Accounting in Europe , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
930
RANK
371,877
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies