Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Australian listed entities’ preparedness for mandatory reporting and assurance of climate-related disclosures

Abacus, forthcoming.

65 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024 Last revised: 9 Dec 2024

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Yun (Hazel) Tan

University of Sydney Business School

Jean You

UNSW

Shan Zhou

The University of Sydney

Date Written: April 3, 2024

Abstract

Australian listed entities are facing mandatory climate-related reporting and assurance requirements, to be contained in annual reports, for reporting periods starting January 2025. Our study assesses the preparedness of listed entities on the Australian Stock Exchange to meet these requirements by examining their disclosures in annual reports between 2018 and 2022. We assess two aspects of preparedness: (i) the disclosure of any climate-related information in annual reports and (ii) the alignment of climate-related disclosures with the impending mandatory requirements. For a sample of 7,728 entity-year observations, of which 2,349 have climate-related disclosures in their annual reports, we find an overall low, but significantly increasing, level of preparedness among Australian listed entities, with the first group of entities required to make these disclosures demonstrating the highest level of preparedness. We then explore drivers of preparedness and find that entities operating in carbon-intensive industries and exposed to a more stringent regulatory environment demonstrate higher levels of preparedness. In addition to entity characteristics, we find Big 4 auditors are a significant driver for both disclosure and alignment, and auditors’ expertise in carbon-intensive industries is positively associated with the alignment aspect of preparedness. Our findings provide timely initial evidence to inform the current regulatory agenda on mandatory climate-related reporting and assurance requirements.

Keywords: [comma separated]Sustainability Reporting; Climate-related Disclosures; Annual Report; Assurance; Audit; Preparedness.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Simnett, Roger and Tan, Yun (Hazel) and You, Jean and Zhou, Shan, Australian listed entities’ preparedness for mandatory reporting and assurance of climate-related disclosures (April 3, 2024). Abacus, forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4782398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4782398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
M Bugeja , R Da Silva Rosa , Y Shan , T Walter , D Yermack
Lower defeat thresholds for minority shareholders and corporate governance: Evidence from the australian "two-strikes" rule
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 7 , p. 61 - 96 Posted: 2023
B Bui , M N Houqe , M Zaman
Climate governance effects on carbon disclosure and performance
The British Accounting Review , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 100880 - 100896 Posted: 2020
Chartered Accountants ANZ [CA ANZ] 2024, Climate-related financial impacts
Business Council of Australia [BCA] 2024, Climate related financial disclosures must align with international standards
J Chalmers , Mp
Mandatory climate-related financial disclosures Policy position statement Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,342
RANK
183,540
3 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies