Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The UN Committee of Experts and the UN Model: Recent Developments

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 3/4 (special issue) ; p. 131-136; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1dz7hrf

Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Brian J. Arnold

Independent

Date Written: February 22, 2017

Abstract

This article reports on the Twelfth and Thirteenth Sessions of the UN Committee of Experts on International Cooperation in Tax Matters regarding the various issues considered in relation to the next update of the UN Model and the Commentaries on the UN Model, which are planned to be published later this year.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: OECD Model, UN Model, technical services

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Arnold, Brian J., The UN Committee of Experts and the UN Model: Recent Developments (February 22, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 3/4 (special issue) ; p. 131-136; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1dz7hrf, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787573
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
68
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies