Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Geographical Proximity, Cultural Familiarity and Financial Information Production

48 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Han Hao

Tencent Inc.

Chun Liu

University of Toronto; Tsinghua University - School of Economics and Management

Shunzhi Pang

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 8, 2024

Abstract

This paper examines the distinct impacts of geography and culture on financial information production. Utilizing data from LinkedIn, we categorize Chinese-concept stock analysts into two groups: those working in China and those with a Chinese cultural background. We identify two sources of local advantages: geographical proximity, stemming from the information-access channel, and cultural familiarity, originating from the information-process channel. Additionally, our findings indicate that local advantages reduce stock return synchronicity, and investors can recognize revisions made by geographically proximate analysts.

Keywords: Local Advantage, Geographical Proximity, Cultural Familiarity, Analyst Forecast Accuracy

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G24, F65, J15, J24

Suggested Citation:

Hao, Han and Liu, Chun and Liu, Chun and Pang, Shunzhi, Geographical Proximity, Cultural Familiarity and Financial Information Production (April 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4787505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
C W Anderson , M Fedenia , M Hirschey , H Skiba
Cultural influences on home bias and international diversification by institutional investors
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 916 - 934 Posted: 2011
J.-F Bachmann , G Bolliger
Who are the best? Local versus foreign analysts on the Latin American stock markets Posted: 2003
K.-H Bae , R M Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
696
RANK
436,942
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies