Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seeing is Believing: Annual Report Readability and Analyst Site Visits in China

54 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Yaohua Qin

Beijing Normal University-Hong Kong Baptist University United International College

Aris Stouraitis

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) - Department of Finance and Decision Sciences

Nan Wang

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

He Xiao

BNU-HKBU United International College

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 9, 2024

Abstract

We explore the impact of annual report complexity on analyst site visiting frequencies. Previous studies have examined the impact of regulatory sanctions or audit quality on analyst visiting frequencies but there is little evidence on the impact of qualitative information in financial disclosures on analyst visiting decisions and selections of the visiting targets. We find that analysts conduct more visits (and more timely visits) in firms with lower annual report readability. The results are robust to using alternative measures of readability, analyst visits, and timeliness of visits, and in propensity score matching or two-stage least squares specifications that address endogeneity concerns. They are also more pronounced for firms with weaker corporate governance and for firms that operate in more competitive industries. Textual analysis of the content of the investor relations activity records that companies release following analyst site visits shows that analysts are more likely to investigate information that is commonly reported in annual reports during visits to the firms with the most opaque disclosures. Our tests confirm that more readable annual reports and more analyst visits reduce information asymmetry, and establish analyst site visits as one of the important tools that analysts use in order to improve the information environment in the market.

Keywords: analysts, company visit, annual report, readability, information asymmetry

JEL Classification: G14, G24, G34, M42

Suggested Citation:

Qin, Yaohua and Stouraitis, Aristotelis and Wang, Nan and Xiao, He, Seeing is Believing: Annual Report Readability and Analyst Site Visits in China (April 9, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4788299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4788299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
D Amiram , E Owens , O Rozenbaum
Do information releases increase or decrease information asymmetry? New evidence from analyst forecast announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , p. 121 - 138 Posted: 2016
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
X Bai , Y Dong , N Hu
Financial report readability and stock return synchronicity , volume 51 , p. 346 - 363 Posted: 2019
V Beattie , S Fearnley , R Brandt
A grounded theory model of auditor-client negotiations
International Journal of Auditing , volume 8 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
685
RANK
441,817
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies