Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legal constraints on the application of IFRS: A note on presentation and functional currencies

25 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024 Last revised: 29 Jan 2025

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Christian Stadler

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: January 13, 2025

Abstract

In this paper, we analyse a mechanism, used in several jurisdictions, for removing an option from IFRS. This involves a national law which does not directly amend IFRS but stands alongside it. Our example relates to a company’s presentation currency, with the important knock-on effects on the determination of the functional currency and then the size of currency gains and losses. This way of adjusting IFRS has not been discussed in the literature before, and its use is not mentioned in the “jurisdiction profiles” of the IFRS Foundation. For 14 major jurisdictions, we record this and other types of adjustment in tabular form.

Keywords: IFRS, adoption, currency

Suggested Citation:

Nobes, Christopher William and Stadler, Christian, Legal constraints on the application of IFRS: A note on presentation and functional currencies (January 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4791516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4791516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
R Ball
IFRS -10 years later
Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2016
R Barker
Corporate sustainability reporting
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy Posted: 2024
W F Chua , S L Taylor
The rise and rise of IFRS: an examination of IFRS diffusion
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 462 - 472 Posted: 2008
E T De George , X Li , L Shivakumar
A review of the IFRS adoption literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 898 - 1004 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
661
RANK
385,002
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies