Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalization of the Economy: A Possible Answer in the Proper Application of the Transfer Pricing Rules?

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4a (Special issue) ; 19 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1gh0kxn

Posted: 25 Apr 2024 Last revised: 22 May 2025

Raffaele Petruzzi

WU Transfer Pricing Center

Svitlana Buriak

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Date Written: March 29, 2018

Abstract

In this article, the authors advance a possible solution to the challenges posed to international taxation by the digitalization of the worldwide economy. They argue that the proper application of the transfer pricing rules solves a problem of profits attribution to all the jurisdictions where digitalized companies generate their value.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: digital economy

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Petruzzi, Raffaele and Buriak, Svitlana, Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalization of the Economy: A Possible Answer in the Proper Application of the Transfer Pricing Rules? (March 29, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4a (Special issue) ; 19 p.; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/1gh0kxn, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795743
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
118
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies