Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ten Questions About Why and How to Tax the Digitalized Economy

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4/5 (Special issue) ; p. 278-292; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/9gs0cs

Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Wolfgang Schön

Independent

Date Written: March 6, 2018

Abstract

In this article, the author raises major policy questions with regard to current OECD and EU projects which aim at the taxation of the digitalized economy. He lays out the basic choice between tax measures securing one-time taxation of profits and a full shift of taxing rights towards market countries, and he presents options including dedicated new taxes on digital transactions, a realignment of source rules or (preliminary) withholding taxes. He concludes that the currently discussed new set of rules based on the notion of "digital presence" seems less in line with the traditional understanding of the corporate tax than a set of rules based on the notion of "digital investment".

Full-text Paper

Keywords: digital economy, ring-fencing, equalization tax, withholding tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Schön, Wolfgang, Ten Questions About Why and How to Tax the Digitalized Economy (March 6, 2018). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 72 (2018), no. 4/5 (Special issue) ; p. 278-292; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/9gs0cs, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795729
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
144
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies