Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Select Targets for Investigations? Evidence from Financial Reporting Enforcement

61 Pages Posted: 9 May 2024 Last revised: 4 Oct 2025

Marius Gros

Niederrhein University of Applied Sciences; Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Martin Nienhaus

Ruhr University of Bochum

Christopher Oehler

Ruhr-University Bochum

Alicia Schott

Ruhr University of Bochum

Date Written: September 30, 2025

Abstract

We examine the consequences of different selection mechanisms in financial reporting enforcement by analyzing a proprietary data set of German enforcement investigations, which includes both risk-based and random selection. Leveraging the availability of randomized selection, we first determine the level of misreporting firms in the population at 15.4%. Against this benchmark, we find that risk-based selection uncovers only 4% of all misreporting cases in the population. Applying recent machine learning techniques does not improve detection, suggesting that observable risk indicators of misreporting are limited. Nevertheless, risk-based selection is efficient, with an error detection rate of 61.3% per investigation compared to 14.9% for random selection, while the severity of errors uncovered through random investigations is comparable. Finally, we exploit random selection to identify the causal effects of investigations. We find that investigated firms reduce discretionary accruals, and smaller firms experience significant increases in audit fees. Moreover, investigations of compliant firms lower the likelihood of future misreporting.




Keywords: Enforcement, Selection Mechanism, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: G14, G18, G38, K22, K42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gros, Marius F. and Nienhaus, Martin and Oehler, Christopher and Schott, Alicia, How to Select Targets for Investigations? Evidence from Financial Reporting Enforcement (September 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4803280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
684
RANK
552,835
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies