Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Effect of IFRS Experience on the Association between Capital Structure and Bank Performance: Further Evidence of Financial Institutions Across GCC Region

28 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2024

Waleed Alruwaili

Northern Border University

Abdullahi D. Ahmed

School of AISSC—RMIT University

Abstract

We investigate whether the association between capital structure and bank performance of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) listed banks is moderated by experience of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Using a sample of GCC countries between the year of 2014 and 2022, we find not only does IFRS experience moderate the association between capital structure and bank performance, but also confound this relation from negative to positive sign. The interaction analysis of IFRS shows a significant outcome between bank performance and capital structure, suggesting that despite the costs of adopting IFRS and various of bank debts, GCC listed banks maintained its better performance. Notably, our results are plausible since GCC listed banks are motivated to enhance the level of transparency and abide by IFRS requirement to preserve their accounting environment and gain a profit. Our findings withstand several sensitivity tests to tackle any autocorrelation and heteroscedasticity issues including feasible general least squares (FGLS).

Keywords: IFRS, Capital Structure, Bank Performance, GCC region

Suggested Citation:

Alruwaili, Waleed and Dahir Ahmed, Abdullahi, The Spillover Effect of IFRS Experience on the Association between Capital Structure and Bank Performance: Further Evidence of Financial Institutions Across GCC Region. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4808974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4808974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
H Abdullah , T Tursoy
Capital structure and firm performance: evidence of Germany under IFRS adoption
Review of Managerial Science , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 379 - 398 Posted: 2021
A A N Abdallah , A K Ismail
Corporate governance practices, ownership structure, and corporate performance in the GCC countries
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 46 , p. 98 - 115 Posted: 2017
B Abuzayed , N Al-Fayoumi , P Molyneux
Diversification and bank stability in the GCC
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 57 , p. 17 - 43 Posted: 2018
M Alandejani , A M Kutan , N Samargandi
Do Islamic banks fail more than conventional banks?
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money , volume 50 , p. 135 - 155 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
372
RANK
792,195
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies