Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supply Chain Information Disclosure: Costs and Benefits of Public and Private Corporate Communication

76 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024 Last revised: 22 May 2025

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Florian Eugster

University of St. Gallen - Institute of Accounting, Control and Auditing; Swiss Finance Institute

Yi Zhang

University of St. Gallen (HSG)

Date Written: May 20, 2025

Abstract

We examine the association between corporate supply chain information disclosure and firms’ information environment. We find that firms decrease their voluntary public disclosure of corporate supply chain information after institutional investors’ private corporate site visits (CSVs), consistent with a public versus private disclosure tradeoff. Cross-sectional analyses show that this is more pronounced when firms are more cost-conscious and less efficient in utilizing their assets, when firms are less geographically dispersed, when firms have a less transparent information environment, and when firms rely more on private equity financing. Consequence tests reveal that non-public disclosure of supply chain information is associated with higher future profitability and increased market-based information asymmetry, especially for firms with supply chain-related CSVs. Our results contribute to the literature on corporate disclosure choice by showing that private information communication reduces pressure for public disclosure but has consequences for managers and investors concerning firm profitability and risk.

Keywords: private communication, public disclosure, supply chain information disclosure, voluntary disclosure, corporate site visits

JEL Classification: G38, M41, M45, M48

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Eugster, Florian and Zhang, Yi, Supply Chain Information Disclosure: Costs and Benefits of Public and Private Corporate Communication (May 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4816585 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4816585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
B K Ak , P N Patatoukas
Customer-base concentration and inventory efficiencies: Evidence from the manufacturing sector , volume 25 , p. 258 - 272 Posted: 2016
K D Allee , C Do , M Sterin
Product market competition, disclosure framing, and casting in earnings conference calls
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 72 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
A Almazan , J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Active institutional shareholders and costs of monitoring: Evidence from executive compensation
Financial Management , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 5 - 34 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,319
RANK
299,879
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies