Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Arguments for Implementing Formulary Apportionment in the European Union

Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 31, No. 1, 2024

21 Pages Posted: 6 May 2024

Joana Andrade Vicente

University of Lisbon - ISEG School of Economics and Management

Date Written: April 29, 2024

Abstract

Using recently published country-by-country reporting data released by the United States Internal Revenue Service, we assess United States multinationals’ activity in the single market, aiming to contribute with data-based evidence to the ongoing political debate about the potential changes in the European corporate tax system. Our findings show evidence of artificial profit shifting across member States under the current method to allocate profits of multinational enterprises, with the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Ireland appearing to be the countries showing a higher degree of complicity with these activities. Such actions challenge fair international taxation in the European Union, distorting European internal competition and hampering tax revenue collection. Although it may not be (yet) the time for a worldwide unitary taxation approach, the analysis highlights the urgency for the European Union to adopt a formulary apportionment approach, overhauling a century-old set of global tax rules based on the separate entity approach.

Keywords: country-by-country reporting, European Union, formulary apportionment, tax havens, United States multinationals enterprises

JEL Classification: D22, F23, F60, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Vicente, Joana Andrade, Arguments for Implementing Formulary Apportionment in the European Union (April 29, 2024). Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 31, No. 1, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4816212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Avi-Yonah Rs Tinhaga , Z P
Taxing Multinational Enterprises as Unitary Firms. Institute of Development Studies , p. 67 - 74 Posted: 2017
R Bolwijn , B Casella , D Rigo
An FDI-driven approach to measuring the scale and economic impact of BEPS
Transnational Corporations , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 143 Posted: 2018
K A Clausing
Profit shifting before and after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
National Tax Journal , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 1233 - 1266 Posted: 2020
DG Competition working paper on state aid and tax rulings. Internal Working Paper, Background to the High Level Forum on State Aid of 3 Posted: 2016-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
370
RANK
730,413
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Institutions: European Union eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies