Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is there a relationship between Corporate Governance and Corporate Value that is mediated by financial performance? Proof from British Banking Institutions

16 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024

Adel Necib

University of Sfax

Date Written: May 5, 2024

Abstract

The banking industry has the capacity to advance and expand in a sustainable manner. Both the value of the assets held by commercial banks and the value of disbursed money have increased as a result. This growth, nonetheless, did not correspond with the rise in the company's valuation. For this reason, in order to raise corporate value, businesses need to be able to maximise their resources. The purpose of this study is to examine and elucidate the variables that may impact corporate value. Corporate value serves as the dependent variable in this study, financial performance serves as a mediating variable, and corporate governance serves as an independent variable. The research methodology is a quantitative approach to explanatory study. Several banks that are listed on the London Stock Exchange's FTSE 100 were used as samples for this study. Descriptive analysis and partial least squares (PLS) analysis, done with the aid of SmartPLS software, were used statistically to analyse the data. The study's findings suggest that business value is significantly and negatively impacted by corporate governance. Moreover, there was a negligible and adverse impact of corporate governance characteristics on financial performance. In addition, the findings demonstrate that there is no discernible relationship between corporate governance and business value that can be substantially mediated by the financial performance variable. This research's practical application was to persuade UK banks management to adopt sound corporate governance practices since they can improve financial performance.

Keywords: Banking, Corporate Governance, Corporate value, Financial Ferformance, FTSE100

JEL Classification: 1

Suggested Citation:

Necib, Adel, Is there a relationship between Corporate Governance and Corporate Value that is mediated by financial performance? Proof from British Banking Institutions (May 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4817804 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4817804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
O I Adeiga , K Pillay
Rooibos tea waste binary oxide composite: An adsorbent for the removal of nickel ions and an efficient photocatalyst for the degradation of ciprofloxacin
Journal of Environmental Management , volume 355 Posted: 2024
R Agha , A Abdall-Razak , E Crossley , N Dowlut , C Iosifidis , G Mathew , . . Ather , M H
STROCSS 2019 Guideline: strengthening the reporting of cohort studies in surgery
International journal of surgery , volume 72 , p. 156 - 165 Posted: 2019
S Alpiah , M Asbari , I A Saputri , N R Adilya
Oversharing: Urgensi Privasi di Era Digital
Journal of Information Systems and Management , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 42 - 47 Posted: 2024
C L Bladen , D Salgado , S Monges , M E Foncuberta , K Kekou , K Kosma , . . Lochmüller , H
The TREAT-NMD DMD Global Database: analysis of more than 7,000 Duchenne muscular dystrophy mutations
Human mutation , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 395 - 402 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
448
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies