Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Financial Disclosures Affect Corporate Sustainability Practices?

60 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024

Chenxing Jing

University of International Business and Economics

Bin Xu

University of Reading - Henley Business School

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: April 21, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether financial disclosures influence firm sustainability practices. Using mandatory segment reporting in the United States as a shock, we find that disclosing financial information about previously hidden segments in pollutive industries reduces toxic emissions from firm plants. This effect is consistent with the notion that segment disclosures enhance the monitoring of firm pollution by highlighting the financial materiality of pollutive segments and drawing stakeholders’ attention to their environmental impact. The effect is stronger when the newly disclosed segments are more pollutive. Disclosing firms achieve this reduction by implementing better pollution prevention practices and increasing green innovation. Overall, this study highlights the role of mandatory financial disclosures in shaping corporate practices beyond the scope of the disclosed information.

Keywords: Corporate Pollution, Materiality, Financial Disclosures, Sustainability Practices, Segment Reporting

JEL Classification: G30, M41, Q53

Suggested Citation:

Jing, Chenxing and Xu, Bin and Zuo, Luo, Do Financial Disclosures Affect Corporate Sustainability Practices? (April 21, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4817939 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4817939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
Accounting Principles Board (APB)
Statement of the Accounting Principles Board: Disclosure of Supplemental Information by Diversified Companies Posted: 1967
P Akey , I Appel
Environmental externalities of activism Posted: 2019
P Akey , I Appel
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
Journal of Finance , volume 76 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2021
B Akins
Financial reporting quality and uncertainty about credit risk among ratings agencies
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
545
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,000
RANK
116,737
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies