Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Valuation of Economic Earnings and Income Shifting of U.S. Multinationals in Domestic and Foreign Jurisdictions

56 Pages Posted: 7 May 2024

Karen Pinto

University of Waterloo - University of Waterloo, Faculty of Arts, School of Accounting and Finance, Students

Date Written: May 2024

Abstract

I study U.S. multinationals’ economic earnings and income shifting across their domestic and foreign jurisdictions. This study develops the concept of economic earnings, measures economic and shifted earnings, tests their market valuation, and tests differences in valuation across investor types. I conceptualize economic earnings as domestic and foreign earnings created in these jurisdictions. I then measure domestic and foreign economic earnings by estimating (i) country-specific locations and (ii) country-specific economic earnings for U.S. multinationals. Income shifting is the difference between reported and economic earnings. For the valuation tests, I decompose total earnings into, first, domestic and foreign economic earnings and then into shifted and resident earnings. I find that domestic and foreign economic earnings are value-relevant and valued relatively differently than domestic and foreign reported earnings. I fail to find evidence that income shifted into and out of the U.S. are value-relevant. I find that more sophisticated investors are associated with the valuation of income shifting and find, contrary to my predictions, that less sophisticated investors recognize underlying economic earnings components.

Keywords: Valuation, Economic Earnings, Income Shifting, Multinationals

Suggested Citation:

Pinto, Karen, The Valuation of Economic Earnings and Income Shifting of U.S. Multinationals in Domestic and Foreign Jurisdictions (May 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4818321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4818321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Governments and Multinational Corporations in the Race to the Bottom
Tax Notes , issue 8 Posted: 2006
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
E Amir , M Kirschenheiter , K Willard
The valuation of deferred taxes
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 597 - 622 Posted: 1997
B C Ayers
Deferred tax accounting under SFAS No. 109: An empirical investigation of its incremental value-relevance relative to APB No. 11
The Accounting Review , p. 195 - 212 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
365
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies