Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relevance of IFRS Accounting Information: Evidence from a Pure IFRS Environment

32 Pages Posted: 9 May 2024

Islam Abdeljawad

An-Najah National University

Date Written: May 8, 2024

Abstract

The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are supposed to raise the value relevance of accounting information and thus ensure its usefulness for users. Most of the studies on the relevance of IFRS-based accounting information were conducted in countries that had previous accounting standards before the adoption of IFRS. However, the relevance of accounting information is influenced by the accounting traditions inherited from previous practices. This study provides distinctive evidence on the relevance of IFRS accounting information by examining the association between accounting information prepared by Palestinian companies and share prices. Palestine represents a pure IFRS environment since IFRS is its first financial reporting framework. The study estimates the impact of accounting information, including book value of equity per share, earnings per share, and operating cash flow per share, on the market value of the share. Totally, the results show that the accounting numbers prepared by Palestinian companies are relevant. Precisely, earnings per share and book value of equity per share are the important variables in determining the share market value. Notwithstanding, no significant impact of operating cash flow per share has been observed. Moreover, evidence supporting the existence of conformity and predictive relevance is obtained, but the overall predictive relevance is higher. To enhance the relevance of IFRS information, this paper recommends local regulators and policymakers to work on improving the readiness of the Palestinian environment to fully benefit from the adoption of IFRS. On the other hand, the International Accounting Standards Board should adequately consider the circumstances prevailing in underdeveloped countries when issuing its standards. For future research, larger samples from several countries with different prevailing factors should provide insights into the mechanisms of the relationship between book and market values.

Keywords: Value Relevance, IFRS, Conformity Value, Predictive Value, The Palestine Exchange

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Abdeljawad, Islam, The Relevance of IFRS Accounting Information: Evidence from a Pure IFRS Environment (May 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4821647 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4821647
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
I Abdeljawad , M A Alia
The impact of earnings management on unexpected stock returns: Palestinian evidence
International Conference on Business and Technology , p. 650 - 659 Posted: 2023
M Abu Alia , I Abdeljawad , M Rashid , R A Frehat
Small firm auditing using the analytical procedures (APs) in a politically challenging context
International Journal of Islamic and Middle Eastern Finance and Management , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 328 - 344 Posted: 2024
N M Abu Ghazaleh , O A-Hares , A Haddad
The Value Relevance of Goodwill Impairments: UK Evidence
International Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 206 - 216 Posted: 2012
M Agostino , D Drago , D B Silipo
The value relevance of IFRS in the European banking industry
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 437 - 457 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
653
RANK
677,757
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies