Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Accounting Classification of Hybrid Financial Instruments as Debt or Equity Matter?

47 Pages Posted: 9 May 2024 Last revised: 10 May 2024

Tobias Bornemann

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: May 8, 2024

Abstract

We examine if the economic substance or the accounting classification of corporate hybrid bonds (CHBs) as debt or equity matters for financial statement users. Our results suggest that users evaluate CHBs in line with their accounting classification, encouraging managers to align CHBs’ accounting classification with their reporting goals. Accordingly, we find that reporting incentives (e.g., debt covenants, earnings targets) are positively associated with issuing equity-classified instead of debt-classified CHBs. Next, we find that equity investors price CHBs as debt at issuance, irrespective of their accounting classification. However, when subsequently recognized as equity in financial statements, CHBs are priced as equity. Lastly, we provide evidence that CHBs’ equity classification is associated with deteriorating analysts' forecast properties. Our results pertain primarily to firms not presenting CHBs separately in their financial statements. These findings support the IASB’s recent improvements regarding CHBs’ presentation and disclosure to reduce users’ awareness costs.

Keywords: hybrid financial instruments, corporate hybrid bonds, accounting classifi

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bornemann, Tobias and Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán, Does the Accounting Classification of Hybrid Financial Instruments as Debt or Equity Matter? (May 8, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4821642 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4821642
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
C Armstrong , J Chau , C D Ittner , J J Xiao
Earnings Per Share Targets and CEO Incentives
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 46 Posted: 2024
O E Barron , O Kim , S C Lim , D E Stevens
Using Analysts' Forecasts to Measure Properties of Analysts' Information Environment
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 433 Posted: 1998
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue 1-3 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,002
RANK
385,002
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies