Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Differences in Information Asymmetry Among IFRS Adopters

32 Pages Posted: 11 May 2024

Ichiro Mukai

Aichi Gakuin University

Abstract

The study investigates whether the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) reduces information asymmetry among firms in developed countries. Previous research suggests that IFRS adoption enhances the quality of information disclosure, leading to a reduction in information asymmetry. However, the impact varies across countries. The study explores how national characteristics may explain this variation, focusing on firms in countries permitting or mandating the application of IFRS. It evaluates changes in information asymmetry before and after IFRS adoption and conducts international comparisons. Findings indicate diverse impacts of IFRS on information asymmetry, as well as differing patterns in market liquidity and bid-ask spread. Factors such as firm size and financial stability also influence changes in asymmetry, with larger and financially stable firms tending to reduce it. The variations in the effects of IFRS are attributed to national characteristics; for example, the bid-ask spread narrows in countries with low "norms of law and discipline" and "motivation for political activities," but high "religious spirit," while countries with high "norms of law and discipline" experience increased market liquidity. These differences reflect variations in investor behavior shaped by national characteristics.

Keywords: bid-ask spread, comparative study, market liquidity, national character.

Suggested Citation:

Mukai, Ichiro, International Differences in Information Asymmetry Among IFRS Adopters. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4825272 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4825272
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Affleck-Graves , C M Callahan , N Chipalkatti
Earnings Predictability, Information Asymmetry, and Market Liquidity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 561 - 583 Posted: 2002
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
R L Atiase , L S Bamber
Trading Volume Reactions to Annual Accounting Earnings Announcements: The Incremental Role of Predisclosure Information Asymmetry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , p. 281 - 308 Posted: 1994-05
S Baiman , R Verrecchia
The Elation Among Capital Markets, Financial Disclosure, Production Efficiency, and Insider Trading
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
517
RANK
819,727
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies