Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of the FASB-IASB convergence project on the rulesand principles-based nature of U.S. GAAP and IFRS

61 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2024

Steve Lin

University of Memphis

Grace Pownall

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Assma Sawani

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs

Changjiang (John) Wang

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 31, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates if the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) convergence project changed the underlying natures of both sets of accounting standards. Using the rules-based continuum score and a new principles-based continuum score, we find that before convergence, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) contained more rules-based standards, while International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) contained more principles-based standards. After the convergence project, U.S. GAAP became relatively more principles-based, while IFRS became relatively more rules-based, consistent with both standard-setters compromising in their approaches to standard setting in order to facilitate convergence. Overall, our results suggest that the convergence project achieved its goals of improving alignment between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. However, it appears to have had a possibly unintended consequence of making IFRS contain more rules-based characteristics.

Keywords: IFRS, U.S. GAAP, Rules-based standards, Principles-based standards, Convergence JEL Classifications: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lin, Steve and Pownall, Grace and Sawani, Assma and Wang, Changjiang (John), The Effect of the FASB-IASB convergence project on the rulesand principles-based nature of U.S. GAAP and IFRS (May 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4857563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4857563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
D Alexander , E Jermakowicz
A true and fair view of the principles/rules debate
Abacus , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 132 - 164 Posted: 2006
A Ali , L S Hwang
Country-specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
R Ball
IFRS-10 years later
Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2016
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Serhii Lahutin
EXPERIENCE IN ACCOUNTING FOR FOREIGN ECONOMIC ACTIVITY IN UKRAINE'S PARTNER COUNTRIES
Three Seas Economic Journal , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 48 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,328
RANK
325,828
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies