Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining the Accounting for the Corporate Bond of the Issuer Subjected to Corporate Reorganization in Line with IAS 27

7 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2024

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: December 01, 2023

Abstract

Reporting entities preparing financial statements under the IFRSs and IASs always confirm to have complied with all the accounting standards and are required to disclose if there was a diversion from one of them. This study has however found out that a certain corporate bond issuer violated the principles of IAS 27 (2014)-Separate Financial Statements when the new parent company did not adopt the corporate bond of the old parent such that the financial statements of the new parent were substantially different from those of the old parent thereby violating section 13 of IAS 27 (2014) resulting in the material misstatement of the financial statements. There were also no proper disclosures regarding the interest expense on the corporate bonds as such information was absent both on the face of the financial statements as well as the notes. Other pertinent information such as the names of the corporate bond subscribers and any penalty which might have been payable for the early redemption of the bond was not disclosed in the financial statements thereby giving less valuable information to the users of the financial statements. It is recommended that external auditors must advise reporting entities to include all the necessary information in the financial statements for the benefit of the members of the reporting entities as well as other relevant stakeholders. The Malawi Accountants Board should also strengthen its role in the enforcement of Review of Statutory Financial Statements and Financial Reports of Public Interest Entities Regulations 2017.

Keywords: Corporate, Bond, Reorganization, IAS 27, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Examining the Accounting for the Corporate Bond of the Issuer Subjected to Corporate Reorganization in Line with IAS 27 (December 01, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4862696 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4862696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Companies Act Posted: 2013
S Dewing
Treatment of bonds at the time of corporate reorganizations
Separate Financial Statements IFRS Staff Paper (2011) IAS 27 Consolidated and Financial Statements -Group reorganizations and in separate financial statements , volume 88 , p. 23 - 33 Posted: 1920
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Dealing with remnants of group reorganizations in Malawi -legal connotations in respect of the Malawi Companies Act 2013 and Securities Act
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 87 - 100 Posted: 2010
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Impact of common control combination transactions in Malawian Banking Industry
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 74 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
369
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies