Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Covert Options: Evidence from Spac Reporting

29 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2024

Robin Litjens

Nyenrode Business University; Tilburg University - CentER and Department of Accountancy

Bart Kamp

Tilburg University

Martijn Hengeveld

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

There is cogent research on significant variation in observed accounting policy choices (overt options) that limit the comparability of IFRS reports. Research on variation resulting from the interpretation of vague criteria in IFRS (covert options) is absent, yet is expected to have greater effects, and research is requested (Nobes, 2015). The absence of research on covert options is caused by lack of data that allows to separate interpretation differences of vague criteria in IFRS from variation in unobserved contract differences. To address this issue, we manually assemble a dataset of covert choices of Special Purpose Acquisition Companies (SPACs) that do have uniform and publicly available contracts. These observed covert choices are germane to a broad cross-section of IFRS reporters such as debt/equity classification of shares. We show significant variation in covert choice hampering -between and within country- comparability and significantly affecting financial reporting ratio's. Next, unlike accounting policy choices, the external auditor should be instrumental to consistent interpretation of IFRSs. Our analysis show auditor involvement indeed enhances consistent interpretation of vague criteria in IFRS, resulting in higher comparability.

Keywords: IFRS practices, Covert Choice, Special Purpose Acquisition Company, Country differences.

Suggested Citation:

Litjens, Robin and Kamp, Bart and Hengeveld, Martijn, IFRS Covert Options: Evidence from Spac Reporting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4863234 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4863234
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
R Ball
International financial reporting standards (ifrs): pros and cons for investors
Accounting and business research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
R Ball
Ifrs-10 years later
Accounting and business research , volume 46 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2016
R Ball , X Li , L Shivakumar
Contractibility and transparency of financial statement information prepared under ifrs: Evidence from debt contracts around ifrs adoption
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 915 - 963 Posted: 2015
J Banghøy , J Marton , T Plenborg , E Runesson
Revisiting pay-performance sensitivity around ifrs adoption in europe: the dominant role of germany , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
503
RANK
772,528
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies