Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Measurement of Farmed Fish

45 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2024 Last revised: 3 Oct 2025

Kjell Henry Knivsflå

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Bjarne Møller

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 13, 2024

Abstract

According to IFRS, IAS 41 requires companies to measure and report biological assets at fair value. This study examines a sample of Norwegian fish farming companies to assess whether measuring salmon at fair value provides greater value relevance than measuring it at cost. Our analysis begins with a survey of financial analysts' practices, which reveals that analysts generally prefer cost over fair value when forecasting cash flows. We then empirically evaluate the value relevance of fair value relative to cost. The findings, consistent with analysts' views, indicate that cost-based reporting has higher overall value relevance. Although fair value measurement enhances the relevance of the balance sheet, it reduces earnings relevance. Following regulatory criticism by Norway’s Financial Supervisory Authorities (FSA), the industry harmonized its fair value measurement practices for immature fish to comply with IFRS 13. This harmonization improved the relevance of fair value balance sheets. By the end of the sample period, the overall value relevance of fair value is as significant as cost.

 

Keywords: Value Relevance, IAS 41, Cost vs. Fair Value, Operating Assets M41, G31, Q22

Suggested Citation:

Knivsflå, Kjell Henry and Møller, Bjarne, Fair Value Measurement of Farmed Fish (June 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4865186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4865186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of Fixed Assets and Future Firm Performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Alf , E F , R G Graf
Asymptotic Confidence Limits for the Difference between Two Squared Multiple Correlations: A Simplified Approach
Psychological Methods , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 70 - 75 Posted: 1999
E Amir , T Harris , E Venuti
A Comparison of the Value-Relevance of United-States Versus Non-United-States Gaap Accounting Measures Using Form-20-F Reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
J M Argilés , J Garcia-Blandon , T Monllau
Fair Value versus Historical Cost-Based Valuation for Biological Assets: Predictability of Financial Information
Revista de Contabilidad , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 87 - 113 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
572
RANK
753,736
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies