Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directory Of Open Access Journals, Sweden Ulrich's Web-global Series Directory, USA Directory of Research Journals Indexing, India Open J-Gate, India Pub-Res-(International Research Library) IRMJCR

12 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2024

Meghna Chotaliya

R.D.National college

Date Written: April 01, 2014

Abstract

The need of XBRL originated from the existing financial reporting requirements. The time and cost involved for compliance with Financial Reporting requirement is high for any company whether it is large or small. The different reporting formats and the pressure to meet the expectations of complying with the reporting requirements in the shortest possible span of time add to the challenges. XBRL is a computer language that enables information to become machine-readable, which streamlines the retrieval, collation, tagging and reading processes involved in financial reporting. XBRL is a freely available, market driven, open, and global standard for exchanging business information. XBRL allows information modeling and the expression of semantic meaning commonly required in business reporting and is XML-based. Instead of treating financial information as a block of text, as is the case with an HTML or a PDF file, XBRL provides a code or a “tag” for each item of data making it possible for the data to be treated “interactively” or “intelligently”. 

Suggested Citation:

Chotaliya, Meghna, Directory Of Open Access Journals, Sweden Ulrich's Web-global Series Directory, USA Directory of Research Journals Indexing, India Open J-Gate, India Pub-Res-(International Research Library) IRMJCR (April 01, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4867223 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4867223
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Is XBRL implementation justified in India?
Ministry of Corporate Affairs
The International Journal of Digital Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 131 - 147 Posted: 2010
Will XBRL stay? Subramoney
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
260
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting - Disclosure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies