Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
M&A Disclosure Post-Global Financial Crisis: The Influence of Family Ownership

36 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2024

Cristina Florio

University of Verona - University of Verona

Francesca Rossignoli

University of Verona

Date Written: May 07, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates whether acquirers provide higher-quality disclosures for mergers and acquisitions (M&As) after the global financial crisis (GFC) compared to before, in an effort to restore investors' trust and secure access to credit in a country, Italy, that lengthy recovered from the severe GFC. By employing a comprehensive mandatory disclosure index, we conduct empirical research on a sample of M&As spanning the pre-GFC (2006-2008) and post-GFC (2015-2017) periods in Italy. Our findings show heightened M&A disclosure quality post-GFC compared to the pre-crisis period, with the improvement being significantly more pronounced in family-owned acquirers than in non-family ones. This outcome remains robust after matching family and nonfamily observations through propensity-score matching. The study enriches extant knowledge on disclosure quality and offers practical implications to regulators, standard setters, and investors who may evaluate different responses to the GFC in a crucial area of disclosure.

Keywords: disclosure quality, mandatory disclosure, M&A, business combinations, IFRS 3, goodwill, family firms, ownership, global financial crisis, Italy

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Florio, Cristina and Rossignoli, Francesca, M&A Disclosure Post-Global Financial Crisis: The Influence of Family Ownership (May 07, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4873996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnana
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
N Arthur , Q Tang , Z Lin
Corporate accruals quality during the 2008-2010 global financial crisis
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 25 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies