Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are IFRS and U.S. Gaap Converging? Some Evidence from People's Republic of China Companies Listed on the New York Stock Exchange

Posted: 6 Apr 2004

John L. Haverty

St. Joseph's University

Abstract

This research investigates the comparability and convergence of two sets of accounting standards from 1996-2002: United States' Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The investigation involves a sample of companies from the People's Republic of China that are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. These companies generally prepare IFRS financial statements and provide a limited reconciliation to U.S. GAAP. This situation provides a unique opportunity to examine two different sets of accounting standards while holding the company constant. Comparability is measured by using an index of comparability, and a set of measures are introduced to capture several dimensions of convergence over time in reported net income, net assets, and return on net assets. The evidence shows lack of comparability, but there is substantial evidence of convergence over time.

Keywords: Convergence, People's Republic of China, International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, Accounting Harmonization

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Haverty, John L., Are IFRS and U.S. Gaap Converging? Some Evidence from People's Republic of China Companies Listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=488065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.488065
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,986
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies