Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance and Determinants of Japanese Firms Pro-Forma Conformance to the IFRS S2 Climate-Related Disclosures

26 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2024 Last revised: 30 May 2025

Frendy

Nagoya University of Commerce and Business

Tomoki Oshika

Waseda University

Chika Saka

Kwansei Gakuin University; Kwansei Gakuin University

Date Written: May 30, 2025

Abstract

The Sustainability Standards Board of Japan (SSBJ) published its inaugural IFRS S1/S2-aligned sustainability disclosure standards in March 2025. This study investigates the value relevance and determinants of Japanese firms' pro-forma conformance to the IFRS S2 Climate Disclosures standard. This study employs Japanese firm samples of 17,738 (2014 to 2022) for the value relevance analysis and 2,280 firm-years (2014 to 2020) for the determinant analysis. We found that pro-forma disclosure conformance is positively value-relevant for firms with lower emissions and those in low-environmental-impact sectors, particularly when additional relevant disclosures are provided. However, for high-emission firms or those in high-environmental-impact industries, conformance is perceived negatively, as disclosures may highlight inherent risks. We find that environmental performance is a key determinant of disclosure conformance, with better-performing low emitters and firms in high-environmental-impact industries tending to disclose more, whereas for high-emitting firms, poorer environmental performance is associated with increased disclosure. The findings imply that investor valuation and firm-level determinants of IFRS S2 pro-forma environmental disclosure conformance are contingent on a firm's underlying climate risk and industry.

Keywords: quantitative, environmental, SSBJ, nonfinancial, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

, Frendy and Oshika, Tomoki and Saka, Chika and Saka, Chika,
Value Relevance and Determinants of Japanese Firms Pro-Forma Conformance to the IFRS S2 Climate-Related Disclosures
(May 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4880164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
D Baboukardos , G Rimmel
Value relevance of accounting information under an integrated reporting approach: A research note
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 437 - 452 Posted: 2016
M Benvenuto , C Aufiero , C Viola
A systematic literature review on the determinants of sustainability reporting systems
Heliyon , volume 9 , issue 4 Posted: 2023
S Bose , H Z Khan , S Bakshi
Determinants and consequences of sustainable development goals disclosure: International evidence
Journal of Cleaner Production , volume 434 Posted: 2024
D Byard , Y Li , Y Yu
The Effect of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Financial Analysts' Information Environment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 96 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
837
RANK
221,315
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies