Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A world of differences: Challenges Reading IFRS 17 Statements

6 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2024

Michael Winkler

Shasat Consulting

Sunil Kansal

Shasat Consulting

Date Written: July 05, 2024

Abstract

This article provides an insightful overview of the findings from the first series of annual statements recently published worldwide, following the IFRS 17 standard. Given the principle-based nature of the new insurance standard, a wide range of different methods was expected to be applied. This variability could easily jeopardize two of the fundamental objectives of the standard: transparency and comparability. We examined the annual reports of 20 insurance companies globally, including AEGON, Allianz Group, Aviva, AXA, Abu Dhabi National Takaful, BNP Paribas Cardif, China Life, CNP, Generali, Manulife, Munich Re, New China Life, Old Mutual Limited (South Africa), Phoenix, Ping An (China), Prudential plc, QBE (Australia), Sun Life, Samsung Life (Korea), and Tawuniya (Saudi Arabia).

Suggested Citation:

Winkler, Michael and Kansal, Sunil, A world of differences: Challenges Reading IFRS 17 Statements (July 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4886460 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4886460
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
724
RANK
441,817
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Property, Casualty & Life Insurance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies