Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bayesian Predictive Inference for Normative Accounting Policy: Accounting for R&D

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 4890988

55 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2024 Last revised: 14 Oct 2024

Stephen H. Penman

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation; Bocconi University

David Johnstone

University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

David Johnstone

University of Sydney Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: September 12, 2024

Abstract

The resolution of normative accounting questions has long challenged accounting researchers. This paper brings a rational Bayesian approach to the issue, with an application to the accounting for R&D where differing prescriptions under U.S. GAAP and IFRS facilitate comparisons. Setting accounting standards is understood in terms of the Bayesian "design of experiments". Accounting standards determine the information produced, its statistical qualities and ultimately its value to users. Unlike extant accounting theory, we employ the conventional Bayesian method of "predictive distributions" to incorporate both parameter risk and information risk. Also departing from convention, we consider investors' welfare in terms of not merely ex ante expected utility but more meaningfully in terms of forecast accuracy and the investor's ex post realized capital growth. Our analysis questions the methods of existing accounting theory and some established results.

Suggested Citation:

Penman, Stephen H. and Johnstone, David and Johnstone, David, Bayesian Predictive Inference for Normative Accounting Policy: Accounting for R&D (September 12, 2024). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 4890988, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4890988 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4890988
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A R Admati
A noisy rational expectations equilibrium for multi-asset securities markets
Econometrica , volume 53 , p. 629 - 658 Posted: 1985
A A Alchian
Uncertainty, evolution, and economic theory
Journal of Political Economy , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 211 - 221 Posted: 1950
D Avramov , G Zhou
Bayesian Portfolio Analysis
Annual Review of Financial Economics , volume 2 , p. 25 - 47 Posted: 2010
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
729
RANK
359,301
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies