Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Adoption of Recommended Reporting Practices: Evidence from the Irish Nonprofit Sector

52 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2024

Brid Murphy

Dublin City University

Erica Harris

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Karen-Ann Dwyer

DCU

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 20, 2024

Abstract

The UK Financial Reporting Council's Charities Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP) provides a detailed nonprofit financial reporting framework for both the UK and Ireland. While adoption is mandatory in the UK, the Irish nonprofit sector currently operates under a voluntary financial reporting system. Using a sample of 23,124 nonprofit year observations for 6,593 unique Irish nonprofit organizations, we examine the determinants and funding consequences of voluntarily adopting the Charities SORP. In doing so, we show that there has been a steady increase in the adoption of Charities SORP, with use more than doubling between 2015-2020. We also show that Irish nonprofit organizations with more external oversight from regulators, auditors and funders as well as those with more resources are more likely to adopt Charities SORP. In terms of consequences, we find that organizations following Charities SORP receive more future funding support from both donors and government grantors. We also find that organizations are more likely to adopt Charities SORP when peer organizations in the same industry/county have already adopted SORP. Finally, we observe that donors reward smaller and educational organizations voluntarily adopting Charities SORP than larger, non-educational organizations.

Keywords: Nonprofit, Ireland, Statement of Recommended Practice, Donations, Determinants, Funding Consequences

Suggested Citation:

Murphy, Brid and Harris, Erica and Dwyer, Karen-Ann, Voluntary Adoption of Recommended Reporting Practices: Evidence from the Irish Nonprofit Sector (July 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4902617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4902617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Accounting by Charities, Statement of Recommended Practice 2 (SORP, 1988)
Accounting Standards Board (ASB) Posted: 1988
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
H K Anheier , A Schülter , V Then , P Walkenhorst
Foundations in Europe Posted: 2001
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
306
RANK
677,757
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies