Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Supply Chain in Context of Transfer Pricing

International Journal of Management, Public Policy and Research, Volume 3 Issue 3, July – September 2024

7 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024

Pawan K. Chugan

Nirma University - Institute of Management; AIIM - Ahmedabad; SPM - PDPU

Nilam Panchal

Gujarat University

Date Written: May 21, 2024

Abstract

It is now very widely known that supply of good and services across the borders by the associated / related companies is subject to the high risk of having disputes with the taxation authorities for abuse of transfer pricing for their international operations which very often may result in litigations. Thus, managing the supply chain when it is related with transfer pricing is extremely important for the smooth conduct of business, This paper in this context, therefore, first explains the relevant concepts of supply chain operations between the associated companies with tax implications, transfer pricing, abuse of transfer pricing, Arm's Length Pricing, Advance Pricing Agreement, Safe Harbour Rules and then explains how such risk of disputes and litigations may be minimized or even eliminated by adopting a suitable legitimate techniques as per the prescribed guidelines and laws of the national and international institutions enabling MNEs to supply tangible and intangibles to their associate companies without having any issues with the taxation authorities.

Keywords: Global supply chain management, Transfer Pricing, Abuse of transfer Pricing, Arm's length pricing (ALP), Advance Pricing Agreement (APA), Safe Harbour Rules (SHRs)

Suggested Citation:

Chugan, Pawan Kumar and Panchal, Nilam, Managing Supply Chain in Context of Transfer Pricing (May 21, 2024). International Journal of Management, Public Policy and Research, Volume 3 Issue 3, July – September 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4902876 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4902876
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
C P Chandrashekhar , P Purkayastha
Transfer Pricing in Indian Drug Industry: An Estimates and its Implications , p. 3 - 10 Posted: 1982-01
Pawan Chugan , Kumar
International Technology Transfer Posted: 1999
Pawan Chugan , Kumar , Mehta Shantanu , Neeraj Amarnani
International Transfer Pricing in India: The New Era of Advance Pricing Arrangements to Benefit both MNCs and Taxation Authority , p. 505 - 522 Posted: 2010
Pawan Chugan , Kumar
Transfer Pricing and MNCs: Safe Harbour Rules (SHR) and Advance Pricing Arrangement (APA) to Facilitate FDI and Reduce Litigation in India , p. 355 - 367 Posted: 2014-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
345
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies