Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trickling Down Sustainable Finance Funding from Donors to Local Communities in the 21st Century

18 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2024

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 24, 2024

Abstract

This essay discusses the main reasons why it is still the case that funding that enters the international sustainable finance lexicon has, for the most part, to go through hundreds of hands before it gets to those in developing communities, if and when it does. Channelling (or its synonym in international development discourse, mainstreaming) sustainable projects, finance, and initiatives up and down the development ladder in what is supposed to be a two-directional process is fraught and problematic. It needs addressing as a matter of urgency. Four main reasons are offered for this: the continued ascent of Projected Development, the continued adherence by most big donors to what we call the Project Paradigm, which demands the replication of Appeal to the global, the Concentric model of a Projected Development with its receding beneficiary target, and the refusal of developing countries to embrace the international practice.

The paper’s first three sections briefly explore these problems, how they persist, and reflect on why they are important to us. The fourth section describes our areas of specific personal concern in 2004–5 and how they have affected our thinking and work regarding the Channelling approach. Several recently published studies—both historical and those published anew—have made clear that donors have spent the last half a century, both in the name of development and in times of crises, reconstructing the international aid and development delivery systems along the lines of their pre-conceived global blueprint – the first policy paradigm persistently promoted by the authors of the Marshall Plan. Recently, figures suggest at least 100 steps in the delivery chain before money reaches villages. The fragmented international aid architecture is held together, particularly in fragile and post-conflict situations, by many parallel, narrow-gauged vertical projects that must make their case for funding. So uneven, complex, and erratic is the process of gaining access to these finally de-localised, tentatively promised sums that few, if any, manage or seek to reach a point beyond their immediate beneficiary target. Above this point and before a ‘project’ is made a reality, the authors argue, the appeal is almost entirely intangible rather than existing recipients. The disadvantaged people mentioned have no identity among the constituents sitting there and little recourse or presence in the market.

In the four countries where the authors have a personal connection, we identified four key power interest groups and their reasons for keeping the current Concentric system in place: the 40 or so big donors in most poor countries because ‘projects’ also both enable them to use their branding devices and still offer ‘value for money’, at least in principle; Line Ministries because they get to set the agenda in a fragmented international aid architecture and because ‘projects’ enable them not to have to ‘Development bank experts’ in the 1990s, and more broadly, the whole of the international development community, especially management consultants all believing that ‘small is beautiful’, and the way to reconstruct shattered infrastructures, as per Easterly and his line ‘reconstruct Zimbabwe’, Jake Johnston and Mark Weisbrot’s report. Our relationships with people in the 14 post-authoritarian Yugoslavia countries (see Lucas 2008), within the management circles of the construction companies currently tendering, already working or hoping to work in the post-Tsunami region of Aceh and more widely in Indonesia, visiting South Africa and knowing many people both formally and informally; and in our relationship with the media, investors, and potential financiers in the struggle around energy futures of Latin America.

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Trickling Down Sustainable Finance Funding from Donors to Local Communities in the 21st Century (July 24, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4904421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4904421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
202
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies