Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting in Nigerian Emerging Market

24 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2004

Felix Afolabi

Morgan State University

Victoria Krivogorsky

San Diego State University

Abstract

The need for the internationally comparable financial statements has never been greater. The globalization of the world economy has led many investors to look to other markets for better opportunities. From their perspective, the globalization of financial markets has been synonymous with obtaining rapid access to portfolio investment opportunities anywhere in the world, including those, once considered as remote. In 1990s remote emerging markets captured the interest of investors with their promise of higher returns. Last decade Nigerian marker became one of them. Nigeria is the world's sixth largest oil producer, and with large untapped offshore oil deposits, it is expecting to increase its export capacity by 50% or more within next few years (The International Herald Tribune, January 8, 2004). According to the U.S. National Intelligence Council forecast, by 2005 Africa's share of oil import will increase from 15% up to 25%, which is very close to current proportion coming from Middle East. The degree of foreign investment in the country is relatively small so far considering the abundant natural resources. However, the legislation passed by the government is helping to improve this situation. Economic liberalization, which is a government priority, is under its way. Major corporations from the U.S. (mostly oil) have already established their interests there. Under such circumstances the research on peculiarities of Nigerian financial statements become very timely. Thus, the purpose of this paper is twofold. First is evaluate the state if Nigerian financial reporting by comparing it to the U.S. And, second is to examine how entrepreneurs and investors use Nigerian financial statements to make informed judgments by investigating the oil, retail, and manufacturing industries. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: next chapter examines the infrastructure of the emerging market in Nigeria. Chapter 2 examines main characteristics of financial reporting, chapter 3 provides the analysis of financial statements there, chapter 4 shows the effects of the peculiarities of financial rules on the decision-making, and chapter 5 contains the conclusions.

Suggested Citation:

Afolabi, Felix and Krivogorsky, Victoria, Financial Reporting in Nigerian Emerging Market. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=490962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.490962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Y O Alhaji , Fca Solate
Company Secretary Registered and Transfer Office, 45/47 Town Planning Way Lupeju Industrial Estate P.M.B 21132 Ikeja
Annual Prospectus for National Oil and Chemical Marketing PLC. 2001. P. B. Ogbobine, Company Secretary/Legal Adviser Eagle House 38/39 Marina
Annual Prospectus for Paterson Zochonis Industries PLC. 2001. P. B. Ogbobine, Company Secretary/Legal Adviser Eagle House 38/39 Marina
J Eligedo
Truthfulness in Financial Reporting
The Lagos Business School Management Review , volume 4 , issue 1 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
620
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,540
RANK
98,916
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies