Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS 9 under Stress: Loan Loss Provisioning under the Expected Credit Loss Model

78 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2024

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Romain Oberson

IESEG School of Management

Elisabeth Renner

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: August 06, 2024

Abstract

We investigate banks' loan loss provisioning practices under IFRS 9's expected credit loss (ECL) model and their impact on procyclicality during the COVID-19 pandemic. Using quarterly European data from 2018 to 2022, we find evidence of discretionary provisioning behavior, including income smoothing, delayed loss recognition, and highly subjective post-model adjustments. Provisions on unimpaired assets are responsive to changes in credit risk indicators, resulting in procyclical patterns. However, prudential filters mitigate the associated lending procyclicality during the COVID-19 shock. Exploiting stress test data, we find that banks primarily understate provisions for impaired assets. This underprovisioning is more pronounced for weakly capitalized as well as for more COVID-19 exposed banks and is associated with reduced lending during the pandemic. Overall, our results suggest that while the ECL model is more risk-sensitive, it has not overcome all the shortcomings of IAS 39's incurred loss model.

Keywords: expected credit losses, loan loss provisions, IFRS 9, lending, procyclicality, COVID-19, regulatory capital

JEL Classification: G21, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán and Oberson, Romain and Renner, Elisabeth, IFRS 9 under Stress: Loan Loss Provisioning under the Expected Credit Loss Model (August 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4918921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Jorge ; Abad , Javier Suarez
The Procyclicality of Expected Credit Loss Provisions. CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP13135 Posted: 2018
Viral V Acharya , Stephen G Ryan
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Anwer S Ahmed , Brant E Christensen , Adam J Olson , Yust , G Christopher
Déjà Vu: The Effect of Executives and Directors with Prior Banking Crisis Experience on Bank Outcomes around the Global Financial Crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 958 - 998 Posted: 2019
Anwer S Ahmed , Carolyn ; Takeda , Shawn Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
803
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,714
RANK
70,668
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies