Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does Delegated Main Bank Monitoring Substitute for Accounting Information in the Bond Market?

45 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2024

Kodai Ito

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Akinobu Shuto

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Date Written: August 18, 2024

Abstract

While prior studies suggest a substitutive relationship between bank monitoring with private information and stakeholders' use of public accounting information, they do not clarify the specific content of the substituted accounting information. We examine whether and how main bank monitoring with private information affects the use of accounting information by bondholders in the Japanese bond market. First, consistent with prior studies, we find that the explanatory power of accounting information is generally lower for firms with a main bank, especially when the firm's default risk is high. This suggests that the delegation of monitoring to the main bank occurs. Second, we find that bond investors of firms without a main bank place more importance on accounting information that is highly relevant to firm's debt repayment ability, such as interest and discount payments, allowance for loan losses, or cash flows from operations. This suggests that the bank monitoring with private information substitutes for these accounting items.

Keywords: bond market, financial reporting, main bank, private information, classification and regression trees, Japan

Funder Statement

The financial support from the Center of Advanced Research in Finance (CARF) The financial support from Grant-in-Aid for JSPS Fellows 24KJ0614

Suggested Citation:

Ito, Kodai and Shuto, Akinobu, How Does Delegated Main Bank Monitoring Substitute for Accounting Information in the Bond Market? (August 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4929199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4929199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Ashiq Ali , Lee-Seok Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Amiraslani , Karl V Hami , Henri Lins , Ane Servaes , Tamayo
Trust, social capital, and the bond market benefits of ESG performance
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 28 , p. 421 - 462 Posted: 2022
Ronald C Anderson , A Sattar , David M Mansi , Reeb
Founding Family Ownership and the Agency Cost of Debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
Ronald C Anderson , A Sattar , David M Mansi , Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
414
RANK
708,404
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies