Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The effect of mandatory short interest disclosure on managers’ disclosure decisions: Evidence from peer firms’ management forecasts

69 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2024 Last revised: 3 Sep 2025

Toshio Moriwaki

The University of Kitakyushu

Akinobu Shuto

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Date Written: August 18, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect of mandatory short interest disclosure on managers’ disclosure decisions, while focusing on peer firms’ management forecasts. We focus on the Japanese market, where the Financial Services Agency of the Japanese government introduced mandatory disclosure of short interests for all stocks listed on its exchange in 2008. We find that managers under the threat of short selling increase the frequency of their forecast revisions. The result suggests that managers attempt to mitigate information asymmetry to avoid short selling through improved disclosure. We also find that managers of overpriced firms increase the disclosure of bad news (downward forecast revisions). This suggests that managers are likely to increase the disclosure of bad news in order to correct overpricing and seek to avoid short selling. The results suggest that mandatory short interest disclosure improves the information environment of peer firms, supporting the effectiveness of the short selling disclosure regulation.

Funder Statement

the financial support from the Grant in Aid for Scientific Research (#23K01664) from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology of Japan

Suggested Citation:

Moriwaki, Toshio and Shuto, Akinobu, The effect of mandatory short interest disclosure on managers’ disclosure decisions: Evidence from peer firms’ management forecasts (August 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4929195 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4929195
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
S P Baginski , J L Campbell , L A Hinson , D S Koo
Do career concerns affect the delay of bad news disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2018
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
V L Bernard , J K Thomas
Post-earnings-announcement drift: Delayed price response or risk premium
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 27 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,598
RANK
703,106
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies