Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hot Markets, Momentum and Investor Sentiment in UK Acquisitions

16 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2004

Hardy M. Thomas

University of Essex

Jerry Coakley

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Date Written: January 2004

Abstract

We examine the links between hot markets and momentum in explaining merger waves using a sample of 881 UK acquisitions from 1985 to 2000. We find evidence of short run positive abnormal returns (or merger momentum) in both hot and cold markets. We find evidence of long run reversal. The post acquisition abnormal returns are negative over three years for the whole sample. We also find an interesting pattern in the long run reversal. Mergers announced in hot markets have higher announcement period abnormal returns than mergers announced in cold markets consistent with momentum. Over a one year horizon there is a reversal in the abnormal returns consistent with investor sentiment: mergers announced in hot markets have lower negative returns than mergers announced in cold markets. Interestingly, the abnormal returns over three years show a further reversal and are higher for mergers announced in hot markets than for those announced in cold markets.

Keywords: Irrational investors, Long-run underperformance

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, Hardy Mathew and Coakley, Jerry, Hot Markets, Momentum and Investor Sentiment in UK Acquisitions (January 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=493063 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.493063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , G N Mandelker
The post merger performance of acquiring firms: A re-examination of an anomaly
Journal of Finance , volume 47 , p. 1605 - 1622 Posted: 1992
Crossref
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe
JAI Series: Advances in Mergers and Acquisitions , volume 1 , p. 7 - 41 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Eugene F. Fama
Market Efficiency, Long-Term Returns, and Behavioral Finance
Pages: 31 Posted: 30 Apr 1997
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J R Franks , R S Harris , S Titman
The post-merger share price performance of acquiring firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 29 , p. 81 - 96 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
384
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,487
RANK
176,641
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Why Has IPO Underpricing Changed Over Time?

By Tim Loughran and Jay R. Ritter

Why Has IPO Underpricing Changed Over Time?

By Tim Loughran and Jay R. Ritter

A Review of IPO Activity, Pricing and Allocations

By Jay R. Ritter and Ivo Welch

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies