Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creditor Rights and Related-Party Transactions: Evidence from the Implementation of the Insolvency Reforms in India

70 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2024 Last revised: 18 Aug 2025

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Y. Christine Liu

Bentley University

Dushyantkumar Vyas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Date Written: August 18, 2025

Abstract

Non-arm’s-length transactions between a firm and its related parties, or related-party transactions (RPTs), are widely used in emerging economies. We examine the effect of creditor rights on the usage of financing RPTs using the enactment of India’s Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) of 2016 as a shock to creditor rights. We show that stronger creditor rights make arm’s-length external financing more attractive relative to RPT financing. In particular, we find that firms that are ex ante more likely to be affected by IBC (i.e., those with low asset tangibility) reduce their dependence on financing-related RPTs, in particular, RPT loans inflows. This effect is strengthened for firms with greater financial constraints and higher growth opportunities. Our findings suggest that creditor rights influence financing choices and contribute to our understanding of how insolvency reforms affect financing and RPTs in emerging markets.

Keywords: Related-Party Transactions, Creditor Rights, Insolvency, Bankruptcy, Emerging Markets, IBC, India, Public and Private Firms, Real Effects of Regulations

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Liu, Y. Christine and Vyas, Dushyantkumar, Creditor Rights and Related-Party Transactions: Evidence from the Implementation of the Insolvency Reforms in India (August 18, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4932963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4932963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor Rights and Corporate Risk-taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
J Armour , D Cumming
The Legislative Road to Silicon Valley
Oxford Economic Papers , volume 58 , issue 4 , p. 596 - 635 Posted: 2006
Bankruptcy Law and Entrepreneurship. American Law and Economics Review , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 350 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
949
RANK
405,369
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies