Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of Credit Running Scheme on Abay Bank, Wolkite Branch, Ethiopia

Idris Ali Yimer and Kidst Yalew (2024). Assessment of Credit Running Scheme on Abay Bank, Wolkite Branch, Ethiopia, Journal of Accounting Research, Business and Finance Management, 5(1), 8-16

Posted: 25 Sep 2024

Idris Ali Yimer

Punjabi University

Kidst Yalew

Wolkite University

Date Written: December 05, 2023

Abstract

This study of evaluation of loan and advanced management systems. It aimed to designate the position of loan and advance management in financial institutions such as commercial banks, micro finances and others. Thus, the rationale behind undertaking this study was to investigate loan and advance management problems and suggest possible solutions that enable the bank to run its manoeuvre most safely, as loans and advances are known to be the mainstay of all banks. The ability of banks to frame and adhere to policies and procedures that promote loan quality and curtail non-performing loans is the means to endure stiff competition. Incapability to create and build up quality loans and credit-worthy customers leads to default risk and bankruptcy and hampers a country's economic growth. However, according to the researcher, a study must be conducted to evaluate loans and advanced management systems at the Abay Bank Wolkite branch. The study's main objective was to assess the loan and advance management system of Abay Bank in the Wolkite branch. Both primary and secondary data are used for the study. Primary data was collected using questionnaires. The secondary data was collected from published and unpublished documents. Descriptive statistical tools are used to analyze the data collected. Hence, the nature of the study was descriptive. Finally, based on the findings, possible conclusions and recommendations were given.

Keywords: Abay Bank, Advance management problems, Credit evaluation, Credit scheme, Wolkite

Suggested Citation:

Ali Yimer, Idris and Yalew, Kidst, Assessment of Credit Running Scheme on Abay Bank, Wolkite Branch, Ethiopia (December 05, 2023). Idris Ali Yimer and Kidst Yalew (2024). Assessment of Credit Running Scheme on Abay Bank, Wolkite Branch, Ethiopia, Journal of Accounting Research, Business and Finance Management, 5(1), 8-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4936974
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
310
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies