Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital market performance and economic growth in Nigeria

Vol. 9 No. 1 (2024): International Journal of Accounting Research (IJAR)

7 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2024

Friday Ojeaburu

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education; University of Port Harcourt

Eunice Odum

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education

Emmanuel Uniamikogbo

Rhema University

Date Written: July 25, 2024

Abstract

This study investigated the relationship between capital market performance and the Nigerian economic growth. The ex-post facto research design was adopted in the study to establish the relationship between the dependent and independent variables. Data sourced from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) statistical bulletins and National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) Reports from 1981 to 2022 was employed to achieve the study's objectives. The multiple regression technique was used to analyse the data with the aid of E-view 12 statistical software. The results of the findings revealed that market capitalization and all share index have significant effect on gross domestic products while total value of listed securities is not a significant macroeconomic determinant factor of economic growth in Nigeria for the years under review. The study recommends that for capital market to perform optimally, the environment must be friendly to promote and encourage investments opportunities. Additionally, in order to ensure economic growth affects the Nigerian capital market positively, it is crucial to remove all bottlenecks and allow free flow of business. This will make it easier for investors to access the capital market, thereby, intensifying the ease of doing business.

Keywords: Capital market, Economic growth, Market capitalization, All-share index, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Ojeaburu, Friday and Odum, Eunice and Uniamikogbo, Emmanuel, Capital market performance and economic growth in Nigeria (July 25, 2024). Vol. 9 No. 1 (2024): International Journal of Accounting Research (IJAR)

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4944359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4944359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
S A Abdullahi
Capital market performance and economic development in Nigeria: An empirical analysis Posted: 2005
N Abu
Does stock market development raise economic growth? Evidence from Nigeria
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 26 Posted: 2009
A Abubakar , S H Kassim
Influence of Banking Sector and Stock Market Development on Economic Growth in Developing Countries
UMYU Journal of Accounting and Finance Research , volume 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2021
I A Acha , S O Akpan
Capital market performance and economic growth in Nigeria
Noble International Journal of Economics and Financial Research , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 10 - 18 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,047
RANK
375,525
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies