Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adapt or Adopt? A Luhmannian Perspective on the Current State of International Accounting Regulation

30 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2024

Esther Pittroff

University of Leipzig

Matthias Schmidt

University of Leipzig - Chair of Financial Accounting and Auditing

Date Written: December 03, 2022

Abstract

Global accounting has been distinctively shaped by the IASB. Application of IFRS in 146 countries makes clear that the IASB is accepted as a legitimate standard setter. The legitimacy of the IASB is also broadly supported by academic literature. A closer look at the worldwide application of IFRS, though, reveals an interesting phenomenon. Many countries adapt IFRS rather than opting for a full adoption of those standards (Nobes & Zeff, 2016; Zeff & Nobes, 2010). Adaption essentially means a slight or significant modification of IFRSor the scope of IFRS application-to national legal or other particularities. This "adaption vs. adoption phenomenon" (AAP) seems to challenge the perceived legitimacy of the IASB (DeLuca & Prather-Kinsey, 2018). However, in order to understand and evaluate the AAP, we argue that it is fruitful to put it into a broader sociological context. Niklas Luhmann's theory of social systems, in particular his work on legal systems, can help to understand whyconceptuallyadaption of IFRS is a necessity and full adoption a rather unlikely case. Luhmann's approach offers a different perspective since it completely neglects any sui generis legitimacy of social systems. His perspective on how social systems develop and differentiate into subsystems is rather functional and focuses on how systems evolve from inside of those systems. From Luhmann's perspective, IFRS are an outside challenge to existing social subsystems with little chance to replace evolved elements without adaptive procedures. A specific adaptive process we focus on to further this point is the EU endorsement procedure for IFRS. We argue that a Luhmannian perspective allows us to better understand specific adaptive processes. It also permits us to evaluate possible future strategies of the IASB to sustain its social meaning. We finally suggest consequences for further research on accounting regulation.

Keywords: global accounting regulation, legitimacy of the IASB, social systems theory

Suggested Citation:

Pittroff, Esther and Schmidt, Matthias, Adapt or Adopt? A Luhmannian Perspective on the Current State of International Accounting Regulation (December 03, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4945084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4945084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
D Alexander
Legal Certainty, European-ness and Realpolitik. Accounting in Europe , volume 3 , p. 65 - 80 Posted: 2006
K J Arrow
Social choice and individual values Posted: 1963
S Ashenden , Oxford
The Problem of Power in Luhmann's Social System Theory
Luhmann on Law and Politics: Critical Appraisals and Applications , p. 127 - 144 Posted: 2006
R Ball
IFRS -10 years later
Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 545 - 571 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
209
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: International & Comparative Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies