Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Taxation Incentives Help Companies Reduce Leverage? Quasi-Natural Experiment Based on the Accelerated Depreciation Policy of Fixed Assets in 2014

29 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2024

Jun Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xiaoli Gan

Guilin University of Electronic Technology

Dai Meng Xiu

Guilin University of Electronic Technology

Mi Tian Jin

Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics

Xiaoye Ma

Guilin University of Electronic Technology

Abstract

The high leverage ratio limits the financing ability of enterprises and may lead to the risk of debt default. How to stabilize the business performance of enterprises while promoting the reduction of enterprise leverage has become an important part of the current supply-side reform. This paper attempts to conduct research from the perspective of tax policy incentives, and regards the accelerated depreciation policy of fixed assets in 2014 as a quasi-natural experiment of tax policy incentives. Based on the data of A-share listed companies from 2010 to 2016, this paper uses the difference-in-differences method to test the effect of tax policy incentives on corporate deleveraging. The empirical results show that the accelerated depreciation policy of fixed assets is obviously conducive to enterprise deleveraging. The mechanism test results show that tax incentive policies promote the expansion of external financing to expand production and business activities, which is conducive to the improvement of production efficiency of enterprises, but also conducive to the deleveraging of enterprises, and the higher the marginal tax rate of enterprises, the more obvious the decline in leverage.

Keywords: Enterprise leverage ratio, Tax incentives, Total Factor Productivity, difference in difference

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Jun and Gan, Xiaoli and Xiu, Dai Meng and Jin, Mi Tian and Ma, Xiaoye, Do Taxation Incentives Help Companies Reduce Leverage? Quasi-Natural Experiment Based on the Accelerated Depreciation Policy of Fixed Assets in 2014. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4953617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4953617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
which put forward seven major measures for enterprises to reduce leverage. In order to further promote the work of enterprise deleveraging, the National Development and Reform Commission, the People's Bank of China, the Ministry of Finance, the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission and other ministries jointly issued the "Key Points of Work to reduce Enterprise Leverage Ratio in 2018" and "Key points of work to reduce Enterprise Leverage ratio in
on Actively and Prudently Reducing Corporate Leverage Ratio Posted: 2019
B Bemake , M Gertler , S Gilchrist
The financial accelerator and the flight to quality Posted: 1993
S N Kaplan , L Zingales
Do financing constraints explain why investment is correlated with cash flow? Posted: 1995
S Myers
Determinants of corporate borrowing
Journal of Financial economics , issue 5 , p. 147 - 175 Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
230
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies