Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Spillover Effects of Timelier Loan Loss Recognition by Banks on Borrowers’ Cross-Border Borrowing

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

60 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2025 Last revised: 19 Sep 2025

Jia Guo

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Yifan (Yvonne) Jia

Xiamen University

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Haoran Zhu

Southern University of Science and Technology; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: May 13, 2025

Abstract

The transition from the incurred credit loss model to the expected credit loss model requires domestic banks to closely monitor borrowers’ credit quality to promptly recognize expected loan losses. Our study finds that after this transition, domestic borrowers increase their cross-border borrowing. Additional evidence indicates that this effect is driven by decreases in credit supply and increases in covenants by domestic banks. The effect is stronger when the transition is likely to increase banks’ loan loss provisions, as well as for borrowers with more cross-border borrowing experience, closer linguistic ties with foreign lenders, or limited access to domestic bond markets.

Keywords: banks, loan loss recognition, expected credit loss, cross-border borrowing, loan contracting

JEL Classification: G21, G28, E51, F34

Suggested Citation:

Guo, Jia and Jia, Yifan (Yvonne) and Ng, Jeffrey and Zhu, Haoran,
Spillover Effects of Timelier Loan Loss Recognition by Banks on Borrowers’ Cross-Border Borrowing
(May 13, 2025). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4958491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4958491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Aaron , X Jia , J Ng , J J Zhang
Current expected credit loss model adoption
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2025
A Abadie
Semiparametric difference-in-differences estimators
Review of Economic Studies , volume 72 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2005
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
B Akins , Y Dou , J Ng
Corruption in bank lending: The role of timely loan loss recognition
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 2-3 , p. 454 - 478 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
907
RANK
454,090
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies