Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trade Credits and Accounts Payables

27 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2004

Khaled Soufani

Concordia University, Quebec - Department of Finance

Panikkos Z. Poutziouris

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The demand for trade credit is considered to be a form of short-term financing that many firms use in order to postpone immediate cash payment, which normally results in improving cash flow. This paper focuses on testing the theoretical determinants on trade credit from the demand side examining whether: 1) - creditworthy firms that have access to both external and internal financing demand trade credits, 2) - that those firms experiencing growth in profits and sales demand trade credit, and 3) - price discrimination by firms can actually influence the demand for trade credit. We use a large sample of 13,193 companies from the UK, and identify whether the decision to demand trade credit as measured by the level of accounts payable depend, on firm's size, or the type of sector in which firms operate in. We draw a distinction between small, medium and large firms, and find evidence that the decision to demand trade credit and the relationship to firm's ability to access finance, their profit and growth, or price discriminate can to a large extent be determined by the size of the firm. When the models are applied to cross sectors, it is evident that firms in the wholesale and retail sectors tend to have significant relationships.

Suggested Citation:

Soufani, Khaled and Poutziouris, Panikkos Z., Trade Credits and Accounts Payables. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=497022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.497022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
E Altman , R Haldeman , P Narayanan
Zeta Analysis
Journal of Banking and Finance , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977-06
M Binks
Information Asymmetries and the provision of Finance to Small Firms
International Small Business Journal , issue 11 , p. 35 - 47 Posted: 1992
Crossref
M J Brennan , V Maksimovic , J Zechner
Vendor Financing
The Journal of Finance , issue 5 , p. 1127 - 1141 Posted: 1988-12
Crossref
A Demiguc-Kunt , V Maksimovic
Institutions, financial markets, and firm debt maturity
Journal of Financial Economics , issue 54 , p. 295 - 336 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,516
RANK
113,582
6 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Trade Credit: Theories and Evidence

By Mitchell A. Petersen and Raghuram G. Rajan

Interfirm Relationships and Informal Credit in Vietnam

By John Mcmillan and Christopher M. Woodruff

Commercial Paper, Corporate Finance, and the Business Cycle: A Microeconomic Perspective

By Charles W. Calomiris, Charles P. Himmelberg, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies