Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rhetorical Resistance: The Construction of Uncertainty in Qualitative Disclosures

38 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2024

Niklas Sandell

Lund University School of Economics and Management

Peter Svensson

Lund University School of Economics and Management

Abstract

This paper explores some of the ways in which attempts to regulate financial communication may stimulate corporate responses in the form of rhetorical moves that diverge and sometimes even contradict the intentions of the regulator. Drawing upon the linguistic notion of hedging the paper presents a qualitative analysis of accounts of goodwill provided in annual reports. Three types of hedges, that is, ways of weakening the corporation’s commitment to the goodwill account, have been identified: potentiality, incompleteness, and subjectivity. In opposition to the intentions behind the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the corporations construct their annual goodwill accounts as uncertain, tentative, and opaque. The paper shows how regulation of qualitative information, aimed at enhancing clarity and transparency, sometimes create a rhetorical space in which corporations can engage in a logic of resistance rather than compliance.

Keywords: Financial communication, Goodwill, Hedging, Regulation, Rhetorical resistance, Uncertainty

Suggested Citation:

Sandell, Niklas and Svensson, Peter, Rhetorical Resistance: The Construction of Uncertainty in Qualitative Disclosures. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4973718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4973718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
The Review of financial studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
W Aerts
Inertia in the attributional content of annual accounting narratives
European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 32 Posted: 2001
W Aerts , B Yan
Rhetorical impression management in the letter to shareholders and institutional setting: A metadiscourse perspective
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 404 - 432 Posted: 2017
G A Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
293
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies