Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Single-Step Firm-Level Identification of Classification Shifting

25 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2024

E. C. Mamatzakis

University of London

Abstract

The current standard models for identifying classification shifting at the firm level have well-known limitations.   We propose a model that provides a single-step firm-level identification of classification shifting. We decompose the error term of McVay (2006) model into two components with the second component being a nonnegative error term, representing the component that is subtracted from core earnings for use in special items. Then the impact of special items is identified from parameter estimates of the underlying distribution of the second component that reveals whether classification shifting is present. Findings provide firm-specific measures of classification shifting over time. We also report the impacts of special items which are notably higher for low-growth firms. This suggests a potential relationship between firm performance and classification-shifting practices. Our approach offers a significant advantage over cross-sectional estimations of prior literature, which are biased as we demonstrate. We also capture the inherent heterogeneity among firms over time while it nests control variables, such as the growth rate at the firm level, further enhancing explanatory power.

Keywords: classification shifting, Special Items, accruals, Error Decomposition.

Suggested Citation:

Mamatzakis, E. C., A Single-Step Firm-Level Identification of Classification Shifting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4978255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4978255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A M Abdalla , C D B Clubb
Classification shifting using income-decreasing special items: measurement and valuation issues
Review of Account Studies Posted: 2023
E Alfonso , C Cheng , S Pan
Income classification shifting and mispricing of core earnings
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2015
A Barua , S Lin , A Sbaraglia
Earnings management using discontinued operations
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 5 , p. 1485 - 1509 Posted: 2010
J Begley , G Felthamg
The relation between market values, earnings forecasts, and reported earnings , volume 19 , p. 1 - 48 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
364
RANK
708,404
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies