Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unraveling the Determinants and Consequences of Mandatory IFRS Convergence in India: Insights from Systematic Literature Review

51 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2024

Dr. Nikhil M N

CMS B-School, Jain (Deemed-to-be-University); Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE)

Sandeep Shenoy

Department of Commerce, Manipal Academy of Higher Education

Suman Chakraborty

Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE)

Abhilash Abhilash

Manipal Academy of Higher Education

Date Written: September 26, 2024

Abstract

The last few decades have evidenced radical changes in global standards, particularly the International Financial Reporting Standards convergence in India has piqued the curiosity of researchers and professionals. Despite the evolving research, there is no consensus on its consequences in the Indian context. In this backdrop, this paper provides a state-of-the-art summary of empirical archival on determinants and effects of Ind AS for the post-2010 period. To this end, the study employs the systematic literature review method following the Scientific Procedure and Rationales for the Systematic Literature Review approach. A total of 50 articles retrieved from the Scopus and Web of Science database between 2010 and 2024 were reviewed. The results revealed that the perceived benefits of IFRS, globalization, and the urge to enhance reporting quality are the key drivers of IFRS convergence in India. Regarding impact, the review uncovered that Ind AS has increased the quality of financial reporting, value relevance, and firm performance. However, it has led to a decline in the ethical reporting of the firms. Further, Ind AS witnessed the increased length and complexity of financial statements, causing problems with the readability of the reports. Overall, the observed learning curve effect strongly suggested that the Ind AS will have a favourable impact on the Indian accounting realm moving forward. The findings urge that policymakers should adopt concurrent enforcement mechanisms while investors are advised to exercise caution while making investment decisions.

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and publication of this article.

Funder Statement

The MAHE-Taylor &amp; Francis Agreement covers open-access publication. The authors declare that no funds, grants, or other support were received during the preparation of this manuscript.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

M N, Dr. Nikhil and Shenoy, Sandeep S and Chakraborty, Suman and Abhilash, Abhilash, Unraveling the Determinants and Consequences of Mandatory IFRS Convergence in India: Insights from Systematic Literature Review (September 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4979863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4979863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
637
140 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies