Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Digital Transformation and Tax Planning Effectiveness: Evidence from Non-Financial Listed Companies in China

43 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2024

Liping Xu

Hunan University

Lirong Zhang

Hunan University

Xiaojian Tang

College of Finance, Nanjing Agricultural University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study examines the impact of corporate digital transformation on the effectiveness of tax planning among non-financial listed companies in China from 2009 to 2020. The results indicate that after implementing digital transformation, companies' tax-saving abilities improve. Mechanism analysis reveals that digital transformation enhances tax planning by improving the quality of internal information environment, namely, enhancing the accuracy of performance forecasts and timeliness of financial reporting. Heterogeneity tests suggest that the tax-saving effect of digital transformation is influenced by both internal and external governance environments as well as regional economic conditions. We find that the impact of corporate digital transformation on tax planning effectiveness is more significant in companies with better internal controls, more analyst coverage, higher levels of regional digital economic development, and greater industrial agglomeration in the region. Further research reveals that digital transformation, after enhancing corporate tax planning capabilities, can further enhance enterprise value.

Keywords: Digital Transformation, Tax Planning Effectiveness, Internal Information Environment, Corporate Efficiency, Emerging Capital Markets.

Suggested Citation:

Xu, Liping and Zhang, Lirong and Tang, Xiaojian, Corporate Digital Transformation and Tax Planning Effectiveness: Evidence from Non-Financial Listed Companies in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4984591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4984591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
618
RANK
534,865
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies