Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Big Data Inhibit Earnings Management in Corporations? — an Analysis Based on National Big Data Comprehensive Pilot Zones

28 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2024

Yiran Chen

Ningbo University

Jiaye Li

Ningbo University

Yan Tong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Laiqun Jin

Ningbo University

Abstract

The issue of financial information distortion caused by earnings management may mislead investors and reduce the decision-making efficiency of the capital market. This study, based on the data of Chinese A-share listed companies from 2010 to 2022, examines the impact and mechanism of the "National Big Data Comprehensive Pilot Zone" policy on corporate earnings management. The findings reveal that the establishment of big data pilot zones significantly reduced corporate earnings management behavior, and this conclusion remains robust after a series of robustness tests. Further mechanism analysis indicates that big data inhibits earnings management by alleviating information asymmetry, enhancing the transparency of corporate financial information, and strengthening the level of internal control. Heterogeneity analysis shows that the inhibitory effect of big data policy on earnings management is more pronounced in labor-intensive industries and growth-stage corporations, while relatively weaker in technology-intensive industries and mature corporations. Additionally, the big data pilot zone has also enhanced the risk-taking ability of corporations. This study provides empirical insights for assessing the effectiveness of policy implementation and its role in the governance of earnings management.

Keywords: Big data pilot zones, Information asymmetry, Earnings Management

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yiran and Li, Jiaye and Tong, Yan and Jin, Laiqun, Can Big Data Inhibit Earnings Management in Corporations? — an Analysis Based on National Big Data Comprehensive Pilot Zones. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4984592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4984592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
RANK
792,195
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies