Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of the Economic Impact of the New Lease Standard

37 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2024

Qingmei Xue

Nanjing University

Zhizhong Huang

Nanjing University

Date Written: October 16, 2024

Abstract

The FASB and IASB issued a converged lease accounting standard, effective in 2019, with post-implementation reviews beginning in 2024. This literature review summarizes evidence on the standard's economic impact, drawing from both published and unpublished research. It explores the effects on financial statements, information users, and preparers, comparing findings with the IASB’s expectations. Although research indicates improvements in information quality, evidence on whether the standard has achieved its key goals of enhancing comparability and transparency remains limited. This review provides insights into the standard's effectiveness and suggests directions for future research.

Keywords: IFRS 16, ASC 842, Lease, Economic Consequence

Suggested Citation:

Xue, Qingmei and Huang, Zhizhong, A Review of the Economic Impact of the New Lease Standard (October 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4989722 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4989722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J Altamuro , R Johnston , S Pandit , H Zhang
Operating leases and credit assessments
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2014
E Barone , J Birt , S Moya
Lease accounting: A review of recent literature
Accounting in Europe , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 54 Posted: 2014
J K Beckman , D Kale
Do the lease accounting and disclosure changes improve the information used in making credit risk assessments? Posted: 2023
Bloomberg
WeWork's balance sheet looks ugly so yours doesn Posted: 2019-09-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,166
RANK
207,517
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies