Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditee Mergers, Audit Fees, and the Market Dominance of the Big Four Accounting Firms

47 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2024

Kareen Brown

Brock University

Yijia Chen

University of Waterloo

Fayez A. Elayan

Brock University-Goodman School of Business

Jennifer Li

Brock University

Parunchana Pacharn

Brock University

Abstract

This study addresses the concerns of stakeholders regarding the audit market concentration. Auditors’ growing market power presents a moral hazard problem for properly functioning capital markets. For more than a decade, stakeholders have paid considerable attention to this issue, as reflected in popular media, academic research, and new regulations such as the EU audit reform in 2014. Our study examines the impact of auditor’s increased market power on audit fees by using novel data on auditee mergers rather than audit firm mergers. Prior studies report mixed results regarding audit fees when mergers allow them to achieve greater economies of scale and market share. We find no evidence suggesting that Big Four auditors reduce their audit fees to pass the benefits of economies of scale to their clients. In addition, we investigates a concern raised by prior studies about the role of shared auditors in auditee mergers and find no evidence that shared auditors play an information intermediary role in their clients’ mergers.

Keywords: audit firms, Big Four, Merger, Audit Fee

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Kareen and Chen, Yijia and Elayan, Fayez A. and Li, Jennifer and Pacharn, Parunchana, Auditee Mergers, Audit Fees, and the Market Dominance of the Big Four Accounting Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4991352 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4991352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
654
RANK
841,621
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies