Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market-Based Incentives for Optimal Audit Quality

40 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2024 Last revised: 21 Dec 2024

Andrew Acito

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Amir Amel-Zadeh

University of Oxford - Said Business School

James Anderson

Saginaw Valley State University - College of Business and Management

William L. Anderson

Independent

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Francois Brochet

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Huaizhi Chen

University of Notre Dame - Department of Finance

Jonathan Fluharty-Jaidee

Public Company Accounting Oversight Board

Martin C. Schmalz

CEPR; University of Oxford - Finance; CESifo; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Manyun Tang

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Scott J. Wang

Pennsylvania State University - Penn State

Joshua T. White

Vanderbilt University - Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Thomas Bourveau

Columbia University; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

William R. Zame

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 23, 2024

Abstract

We examine how equity markets respond to the public release of audit-firm inspection reports by the U.S. regulator. Investors react differently based on the identifiability of the public issuers whose audits are covered in the inspection report. Auditors with identifiable issuer clients show positive abnormal returns for non-deficient reports and negative reactions for deficient ones. In contrast, issuers less easily linked to specific auditor inspections experience muted responses. More timely publication of inspection reports intensifies market reactions, while delays reduce their informativeness. The findings highlight how regulatory transparency can enable investors to better in- corporate audit quality information into equity prices. We discuss implications for market-based incentives for issuers and auditors.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Audit Regulation, Event Study, Abnormal Returns, Inspection Report JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, G18, G14

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, G18, G14

Suggested Citation:

Acito, Andrew and Amel-Zadeh, Amir and Anderson, James and Anderson, William L. and Aobdia, Daniel and Brochet, Francois and Chen, Huaizhi and Fluharty-Jaidee, Jonathan and Schmalz, Martin C. and Schmalz, Martin C. and Tang, Manyun and Wang, Scott Jinzhiyang and White, Joshua T. and Bourveau, Thomas and Zame, William R., Market-Based Incentives for Optimal Audit Quality (October 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4997362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4997362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
D Anantharaman
Comparing self-regulation and statutory regulation: Evidence from the accounting profession
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 37 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 2012
R Antle
Auditor independence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1984
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process-Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia , N Shroff
Regulatory oversight and auditor market share
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , p. 262 - 287 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
574
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,450
RANK
109,268
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies