Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Accounting the 'English' Language of Business? The Role of Language in IFRS Adoption and Information Loss

61 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2024

Jenny Guan

Monash University

Emily Shafron

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Kangtao Ye

Beijing National Accounting Institute

Wenzi Zhuang

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics - School of Accounting

Date Written: October 03, 2024

Abstract

We examine whether and how language barriers influence a country's decision to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Our findings reveal that as the distance between a country's official language and English (i.e., "linguistic distance") increases, the likelihood and speed of a country adopting IFRS significantly decrease. Our evidence is consistent with the notion that language barriers impose significant information costs on both the preparers and users of financial reporting, thereby making IFRS more costly to adopt for countries with severe language barriers. In further analysis, we find evidence that such information costs materialize when these countries eventually adopt IFRS. Specifically, firms in countries with the most severe language barriers experience a worsened post-adoption information environment, as evidenced by increased analyst forecast errors and widened bidask spreads. Overall, our study suggests that language barriers act as an obstacle to achieving international accounting harmonization by increasing the costs associated with adopting, understanding, and applying IFRS standards.

Keywords: IFRS, IFRS adoption, language barriers, linguistic distance

Suggested Citation:

Guan, Jenny and Shafron, Emily and Ye, Kangtao and Zhuang, Wenzi, Is Accounting the 'English' Language of Business? The Role of Language in IFRS Adoption and Information Loss (October 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4999570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4999570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
K D Allee , L S Anderson , M J Crawley
The Impact of linguistic distance and financial reporting readability on foreign holdings of US stocks Posted: 2018
S Archer , S Mcleay
Issues in transnational financial reporting: A linguistic analysis
Journal of Multilingual & Multicultural Development , volume 12 , issue 5 , p. 347 - 361 Posted: 1991
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
658
RANK
623,124
1 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies