Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From No Materiality to Double Materiality: A 50-year Journey

35 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2024 Last revised: 9 Dec 2024

Christopher William Nobes

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: October 27, 2024

Abstract

This paper first examines the concept of materiality in regulations on corporate reporting. The focus is on Europe, including international standards as endorsed in Europe. The paper traces the concept of materiality from its first US-inspired appearances in the 1970s (in EU Directives and UK accounting standards) until the recent international and EU sustainability standards. The texts of these documents are analysed to reveal the varying importance of materiality over time. In some documents, materiality is absent but in others it is one of only three or four key concepts. The definitions of materiality have also varied greatly. This paper also assesses whether researchers have taken sufficient account of materiality when scoring corporate compliance with disclosure requirements. The scope of materiality had been gradually narrowed in recent years in IFRS, but that was reversed by the concept of impact materiality in GRI standards and then the double materiality of the EU’s sustainability standards. The ambiguity of the concept is illustrated by examining the changing signifiers used for it in several European languages. Policy recommendations for regulators and researchers follow from the analysis.

 

Keywords: Materiality, Sustainability standards, ISSB, ESRS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nobes, Christopher William, From No Materiality to Double Materiality: A 50-year Journey (October 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5001195 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5001195
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Aaa
Accounting and Reporting Standards for Corporate Financial Statements and Preceding Statements and Supplements Posted: 1957
S Abhayawansa
Swimming against the tide: Back to single materiality for sustainability reporting
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 1361 - 1385 Posted: 2022
S Aisbitt
Measurement of harmony of financial reporting within and between countries: the case of the Nordic countries
European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 72 Posted: 2001
S Aisbitt , C W Nobes
The true and fair view requirement in recent national implementations
Accounting and Business Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 83 - 90 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
364
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,097
RANK
187,425
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies