Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unlimited Adjustments: Some Reflections on Transfer Pricing, General Anti-Avoidance and Controlled Foreign Company Rules, and the 'Saving Clause'

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 4/5, Pages 269-281

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Isabel Verlinden

Independent

G.W. Kofler

Independent

Abstract

In light of Actions 8-10 of the OECD/G20 BEPS Project, this article considers the interaction and increasing pressure points between transfer pricing and general anti-avoidance and controlled foreign company rules, and the effect of article 9 of the OECD Model in light of the saving clause in article 1(3).

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2y8e7ev

Keywords: BEPS Project (OECD), CFC, GAAR, transfer pricing, transfer pricing adjustment, saving clause, value creation, anti-avoidance, ATAD

Suggested Citation:

Verlinden, Isabel and Kofler, G.W., Unlimited Adjustments: Some Reflections on Transfer Pricing, General Anti-Avoidance and Controlled Foreign Company Rules, and the 'Saving Clause'. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 74 (2020), Issue 4/5, Pages 269-281, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5002984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2y8e7ev
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
112
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: International & Comparative Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies