Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The OECD Pillar 1 Blueprint: Why Amount B Matters

Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 3, Pages 124-136

Posted: 4 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Ian F. Dykes

Independent

L.H. Keegan

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the authors consider the importance of Amount B in the package of measures in the OECD Pillar 1 Blueprint, the degree of existing support in the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for the use of multi-territory and industry-wide comparables and the potential relevance of different profit level indicators.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2jd8aq9

Keywords: Pillar 1 (OECD), OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, arm's length principle, Berry ratio, comparability analysis

Suggested Citation:

Dykes, Ian F. and Keegan, L.H., The OECD Pillar 1 Blueprint: Why Amount B Matters. Bulletin for International Taxation: Vol. 75 (2021), Issue 3, Pages 124-136, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5003065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2jd8aq9
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
126
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies