Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Impact of Security, Confidentiality, and Related Factors on M-Banking Adoption in India: A Machine Learning Perspective

Posted: 18 Dec 2024

Purushottam Bung

RV Institute of Management; KLS's Institute of Management Education and Research

Date Written: January 10, 2024

Abstract

The digital payment sector is becoming an increasingly important aspect of people’s life as a result of recent advancements in mobile and internet technology, delivering numerous fascinating and helpful services like M-banking. The m-banking system enables consumers to make purchases from anywhere using any electronic device, including mobile phones or tablets. M-banking is expected to have a better future as a result of current movements in international digital markets. The Reserve Bank of India said that the number of mobile banking transactions in India increased by 123% between 2018 and 2019, reaching 1.31 billion in total. More than 60% of Indian internet users use financial services via their mobile devices, according to Boston Consulting Group and Google, and the country’s mobile banking market is predicted to reach $1 trillion by 2023. Yet, these channels are more susceptible to various security risks when it comes to storing or transmitting information. Because there are so many various sorts of hazards, users are reluctant to use these services online. One of the aims of current research is to measure how perceived risk affects mobile banking in terms of intension and usage. The study also uses ML techniques to investigate the impact of other dimensions and measures, such as quality, ethics, simplicity, and demographic factors on m-banking patronage. The data is collected for the study using a structured questionnaire. The information gathered for the study was used to train and test ML models. Data collected were analyzed using various techniques, they are descriptive statistics, correlation and regression, principal component analysis, ML techniques, and other statistical techniques are used, to identify the key dimensions that impact customers’ desire to adapt and utilize m-banking. Research findings may assist in suggesting ways to mitigate m-banking risks prevalent among users, and highlight key factors that drive the user’s intention of usage. Institute can use the study outcomes to improve user access for sustainable growth.

Suggested Citation:

Bung, Purushottam, Exploring the Impact of Security, Confidentiality, and Related Factors on M-Banking Adoption in India: A Machine Learning Perspective (January 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5021900
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
130
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies