Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unlocking the Language of Money: A Comprehensive Guide to Accounting and Finance

Unlocking the Language of Money | ISBN: 978-99993-2-118-1 | 2024

Posted: 14 Jan 2025

Luzolo D. Sanches-António

ESHOTUR - Agostinho Neto University

Date Written: October 24, 2024

Abstract

This manual summarizes a set of concepts about accounting and finance, which, illustrated with practical cases, allow teachers and students to simplify issues about these areas. Thus, topics on general accounting, financial administration, financial mathematics, and economic and financial viability analysis are covered. Throughout the manual, there is a concern to cover the topics in a simple and accessible way.

Suggested Citation:

Sanches-António, Luzolo D., Unlocking the Language of Money: A Comprehensive Guide to Accounting and Finance (October 24, 2024). Unlocking the Language of Money | ISBN: 978-99993-2-118-1 | 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5023865
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
119
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies