Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Numerous EU Member States are in Breach of EU Law by Requiring Taxpayers to Demonstrate Absence of Abuse

European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 10, Pages 440-449

Posted: 22 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Fons Ravelli

Independent

F. Franconi

Independent

Abstract

Rules intended to prevent tax avoidance often place the burden of proof on the taxpayer. Such an allocation of the burden of proof is incompatible with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ). In this article, the authors provide examples of Netherlands and Italian tax laws that are in breach of the allocation of the burden of proof as prescribed by the ECJ. As these examples concern types of rules applied in other EU Member States, the authors expect that there will be similar issues in many other EU Member States.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2bzs10

Keywords: tax avoidance, ECJ case law, burden of proof, ATAD

Suggested Citation:

Ravelli, Fons and Franconi, F., Numerous EU Member States are in Breach of EU Law by Requiring Taxpayers to Demonstrate Absence of Abuse. European Taxation: Vol. 61 (2021), Issue 10, Pages 440-449, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5028694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2bzs10
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
68
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies