Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vat Treatment of Non-Fungible Tokens

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 245-251

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Maria Laura Coímbra

Independent

Abstract

In this article, the author analyses the VAT treatment of non-fungible tokens (NFTs), which is an innovative service within the e-commerce industry. VAT faces different challenges when it comes to taxing e-commerce transactions, and in order to have certainty on the tax implications it is important first to understand the business itself. The sale of NFTs might trigger additional payments, such as gas fees, royalties and marketplaces fees, which is addressed by the author in this article.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/39m1s8p

Keywords: VAT, NFT, e-commerce, cryptocurrency, blockchain, consideration, royalties

Suggested Citation:

Coímbra, Maria Laura, Vat Treatment of Non-Fungible Tokens. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 245-251, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034240 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/39m1s8p
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
159
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies