Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Deterrence Effect of Tax Whistleblowing Programs on Aggressive Tax Filing

51 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2025

Leslie Berger

Wilfrid Laurier University - School of Business & Economics

Preetika Joshi

McGill University

Linda Thorne

York University - Schulich School of Business

Date Written: November 26, 2024

Abstract

Although tax whistleblowing programs do not appear to generate a substantial recovery of unpaid taxes, they continue to be adopted by national tax agencies around the globe. Accordingly, we investigate an alternative explanation for their adoption, which is the presence of tax whistleblowing programs deter otherwise errant taxpayers from aggressive tax filing, and by so doing increase the tax revenue collected by national tax agencies. We use a mixed methods approach for our investigation. First, we employ archival analysis to substantiate that national tax agencies collect significantly more tax revenue after the implementation of tax whistleblowing programs. Our archival analysis applies over-time and cross-national heterogeneity to tax whistleblowing programs in 33 countries, and finds that the implementation of these programs significantly increases tax revenue collected, as measured by the effective tax rate (ETR) and cash effective tax rate (CETR), of approximately 0.4% and 0.7%, respectively. Second, we use an experiment, grounded in Deterrence Theory (Becker, 1968), to demonstrate that taxpayers’ are deterred from aggressive tax filings when tax whistleblowing programs increase perceptions of the tax authority's power. Therefore, our archival findings show that there is a substantial benefit associated with tax whistleblowing programs of increased tax revenues, and our experiment shows that tax whistleblowing programs are a mechanism to influence taxpayers’ perceptions of the power of the tax authority that deters aggressive tax filing. 

Suggested Citation:

Berger, Leslie and Joshi, Preetika and Thorne, Linda, The Deterrence Effect of Tax Whistleblowing Programs on Aggressive Tax Filing (November 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5035027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5035027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
502
RANK
812,770
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies