Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Commodity Traders: Transfer Pricing in the Era of Tax Transparency

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 353-361

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Bert Middelkoop

Independent

J. Gniadecka

Independent

J. Barndollar

Independent

Abstract

Given the scale and profitability of firms operating in the commodity trading industry, and with the rapidly progressing changes in the tax and transfer pricing landscape, it is expected that commodity traders will be under increasing pressure to review their approach to transfer pricing. In this article, the authors aim to examine the most critical aspects relevant for such review, with a particular focus on the role and contribution of each part of the trading business and the degree of risk taken by (part of) the enterprise.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2exfswv

Keywords: transfer pricing, supply chain, trading income, control, risk management, hedging transaction, Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), CbC Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Middelkoop, Bert and Gniadecka, J. and Barndollar, J., Commodity Traders: Transfer Pricing in the Era of Tax Transparency. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 6, Pages 353-361, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037339 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2exfswv
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
204
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies