Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Permanent Establishment Risk Exposure of Private Equity Funds and the New Italian Investment Management Exemption: A Quest for Certainty

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 231-245

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Stefano Simontacchi

Independent

M. Adda

Independent

G. Genta

Independent

Abstract

This article provides a tentative answer to the issue of the interplay between, on the one hand, the private equity funds and the PE concerns and, on the other, the bearing of the new Italian investment management exemption.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/33ttgas

Keywords: transfer pricing, private equity, investment fund, PE, risk, allocation of profits, entity approach, significant people functions, exemption

Suggested Citation:

Simontacchi, Stefano and Adda, M. and Genta, G., Permanent Establishment Risk Exposure of Private Equity Funds and the New Italian Investment Management Exemption: A Quest for Certainty. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 30 (2023), Issue 4, Pages 231-245, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037322 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/33ttgas
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
149
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies