Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing the Digital Economy: Domestic and Global Challenges

Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2022), Issue 2

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Ikramul Haq

Independent

M.A. Ahmed

Independent

Abstract

The digital economy is emerging as a global marketplace and e-commerce and digital technologies are increasingly facilitating businesses and their clients, as well as governments and their citizens, in transcending the barriers of geographical boundaries, time and distance. Nonetheless, further development of the technology sector in Pakistan faces several challenges, such as heavy taxation, lack of broader incentives and the need for a more holistic approach by the government. At the same time, e-commerce and the digital economy in general have given rise to complex taxation issues worldwide that may also impact Pakistan. This article deals with some challenges relating to taxation of the digital economy in Pakistan, and highlights recent international tax developments on taxation of the digital economy. The article also suggests areas that should be prioritized by the government in order to develop its digital infrastructure and fully realize the potential of the digital economy.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/18x9954

Keywords: digital economy, e-commerce, international taxation, Pillar 1 (OECD), Pillar 2 (OECD), domestic tax law, tax burden, tax incentive, special economic zone, case law

Suggested Citation:

Haq, Ikramul and Ahmed, M.A., Taxing the Digital Economy: Domestic and Global Challenges. Asia-Pacific Tax Bulletin: Vol. 28 (2022), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/18x9954
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
136
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies