Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Approach to Beps Risk Assessment: Applying Data Analytics Techniques to Country-by-Country Reporting Data

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 2

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Julia Maria Martínez Tapia

Independent

N. Jalan

Independent

Abstract

This article discusses the application of data analytics techniques on data provided by multinationals in the country-by-country reporting to analyse, interpret and understand financial and other data with ease. Thus, it would provide a better understanding of multinationals’ global structures, economic activities and footprints to identify the material risk areas, thereby providing multinationals and tax authorities with a technique to undertake preliminary base erosion and profit shifting risk assessment. The authors have primarily relied on the tax risk indicators laid down in the OECD Handbook on Effective Tax Risk Assessment to build different stages of risk assessment. The possibility and the advantages of setting up a unified risk assessment tool based on the various risk assessment are also briefly discussed. The authors believe that such a tool, when publicly available, would enable different stakeholders to interpret the available data in country-by-country reporting more uniformly and requisite, timely action can be taken to address the identified risk areas.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2y7zwx5

Keywords: transfer pricing, BEPS, risk assessment, data analytics, CbC Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Martínez Tapia, Julia Maria and Jalan, N., An Approach to Beps Risk Assessment: Applying Data Analytics Techniques to Country-by-Country Reporting Data. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037188 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2y7zwx5
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
95
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies