Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of CSR on Financial Performance: Evidence from the
FMCG Sector

10 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Anthony Betia

University of Asia & the Pacific

Franz Palacio

University of Asia & the Pacific

Gabriel Luigi Samia

University of Asia & the Pacific

Angela Garcia

University of Asia & the Pacific

Alexandra Magana

University of Asia & the Pacific

Carlos San Jose

University of Asia & the Pacific

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

In recent years, there has been a surge of academic and stakeholder interest in sustainable business practices in emerging Southeast Asian economies given the region's high vulnerability to climate change and associated environmental challenges. While the existing literature has explored the potential impact of ESG and CSR practices on Fast-Moving Consumer Goods’ (FMCG) financial
performance, the findings remain inconclusive. This inconsistency can be attributed to factors such as varying metrics, diverse industry contexts, and differing reporting methodologies for sustainability practices.


This review of literature examined ten selected journals and cases to understand the effects of ESG and CSR on financial performance, with reference to evidence from the FMCG sector and related industries. FMCGs are of particular interest, as they contribute nearly a third of global emissions worldwide. 


Findings reveal the possibility for reverse causation, in that financial performance actually affects ESG/CSR and not the other way around; that larger firms have more effective CSR and tend to benefit more accordingly; and that CSR initiatives appear to be a short term negative, yet long term positive. 

Keywords: CSR, ESG, financial performance, FMCG

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Suggested Citation:

Betia, Anthony and Palacio, Franz and Samia, Gabriel Luigi and Garcia, Angela and Magana, Alexandra and San Jose, Carlos,
The Effects of CSR on Financial Performance: Evidence from the
FMCG Sector
(December 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5054313 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5054313
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Rao Agarwal , Nagarkar
Relationship between Environmental, Social and Governance Factors and Firm Financial Performance: A Study of Selected Indian FMCG Companies
CARDIOMETRY , volume 24 , p. 477 - 485 Posted: 2022
B A Alareeni , A Hamdan
ESG impact on performance of US S&P 500-listed firms
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 20 , issue 7 , p. 1409 - 1428 Posted: 2020
S Boukattaya , Z Achour , Z Hlioui
Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Financial Performance: An Empirical Literature Review
International Journal of Innovative Research and Publications , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2021
K Cek , S Eyupoglu
Does Environmental, Social and Governance Performance Influence Economic Performance?
Journal of Business Economics & Management , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 1165 - 1184 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
824
RANK
601,250
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies