Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Search of a Generic Framework of Research on Professions: A view from the Accounting Profession

39 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2024 Last revised: 23 Dec 2024

Lin Ma

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 16, 2024

Abstract

This paper aims to build a framework of professions compatible with the accounting profession while consistent with other well-recognised professions. The current problem of studies in professions is to define the phenomenon of profession. Single-profession, taxonomic, and other theory-driven studies have proposed different definitions of a profession. More problematically, many definitions excluded traditional professions such as law, medicine, and medicine. Thus, this paper reviews the current methodology of studies on professions. Also, this paper reviewed the history of accounting practitioners to illustrate the problem of existing paradigms of studies on professions. This paper suggests that an interactionism definition could include well-recognised professions. Based on the definition, this paper proposes a context-neutral, need-based measurement of professionalisation that could be utilised in different social settings.

Keywords: Professionalisation, Accounting Profession, History

JEL Classification: M49, N00

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Lin, In Search of a Generic Framework of Research on Professions: A view from the Accounting Profession (December 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5059430 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5059430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
165 References
A Abbott
The system of professions: An essay on the division of expert labor Posted: 1988
Acca-Isca
Joint Pathway Programme | ACCA Global Posted: 2024-05-13
AICPA & CIMA Posted: 2024-05-13
C P Alderfer
An empirical test of a new theory of human needs
Organizational Behavior and Human Performance , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 142 - 175 Posted: 1969
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
301
165 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies