Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Reactions to Generative AI Usage in MD&A Disclosures

54 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Benedikt J. Plate

University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics - Chair of Accounting and Control

Johannes Voshaar

University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics - Chair of Accounting and Control

Jochen Zimmermann

University of Bremen - Chair of Accounting and Control; University of Bremen - Faculty of Business Studies and Economics

Date Written: December 22, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) usage on investor reactions by focussing on the use of GenAI to create or modify ‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations’ (MD&A) sections of 10-K filings. GenAI applications such as ChatGPT have quickly become integral to various fields, including accounting. Analyzing 6,977 firm-year observations from filing years 2021 to 2023, we find that using GenAI for MD&A texts is associated with adverse short-term investor reactions measured by signed and absolute cumulative abnormal returns (CAR). Using causal mediation analysis, we show that GenAI enhances financial disclosures’ readability, leading to greater CAR. Tone, in contrast, remains unaffected, suggesting firms prioritize simplifying over tone manipulation. However, the mediation effect is outweighed by the negative direct effect, leading to a significantly negative impact of GenAI usage in narrative disclosures on investor reactions. These insights have implications for policymakers and practitioners. Regulatory frameworks guiding GenAI use in financial reporting could mitigate unintended effects, while preparers should carefully weigh efficiency gains against potential risks to investor trust. Our study provides first evidence on capital market implications of GenAI usage in financial disclosures, contributing to research on technology-driven shifts in financial reporting.

Keywords: Generative AI, Investor Reactions, MD&A, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: C45, G14, G15, G41, M41

Suggested Citation:

Plate, Benedikt J. and Voshaar, Johannes and Zimmermann, Jochen and Zimmermann, Jochen, Investor Reactions to Generative AI Usage in MD&A Disclosures (December 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5068116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5068116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
D Acemoglu
The Simple Macroeconomics of AI
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2024
D Adhariani , E Du Toit
Readability of sustainability reports: Evidence from Indonesia
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 621 - 636 Posted: 2020
C Aghamolla , K Smith
Strategic complexity in disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 76 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
M Alavi , D E Leidner , R Mousavi
Knowledge Management Perspective of Generative Artificial Intelligence
Journal of the Association for Information Systems , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,803
RANK
120,303
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies