Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Characteristics of Compensation Committees and Non-Executive Compensation: Evidence from Taiwan

40 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2024

Yu-Ling Tsai

National Cheng Kung University

Hua-Wei Huang

National Cheng Kung University

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Shih-Bin Wu

National Dong Hwa University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Unequal pay has become a global threat to meeting the United Nations’ sustainability goals. Based on a sample of Taiwan-listed firms, this study finds that the number of compensation committee meetings and the size of compensation committees are associated with a higher CEO-to-employee pay ratio. We further find that the labor practices and health sustainability issues on the U.S. SASB Materiality map strengthen the positive association between compensation committee size and the pay ratio. Our findings are of interest to the governments with similar institutional environments.

Keywords: Compensation committee, Compensation disclosure, Mandatory, Non-executive compensation, U.S. SASB Materiality Map.

Suggested Citation:

Tsai, Yu-Ling and Huang, Hua-Wei and Dao, Mai and Wu, Shih-Bin, Characteristics of Compensation Committees and Non-Executive Compensation: Evidence from Taiwan. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5069667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5069667
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J S Adams
Inequity in social exchange
, volume 2 , p. 267 - 299 Posted: 1965
M A Abernethy , Y Dong , Y F Kuang , B Qin , X Yang
Firm strategy and CEO-VP pay differentials in equity compensation
European Accounting Review
W Alissa
Boards' response to shareholders' dissatisfaction: The case of shareholders' say on pay in the UK
European Accounting Review , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 727 - 752 Posted: 2015
N Y Amoah , A Asante , E K Lamptey , B Makkawi
The influence of compensation committee financial expertise on CEO pay
Journal of Business and Behavioral Sciences , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 4 - 19 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
250
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies