Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do managers really disclosure bad news early? Examination of management forecast in Japan’s effectively mandated disclosure

38 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2025 Last revised: 14 May 2025

Takuya Iwasaki

Kansai University

Shota Otomasa

Kansai University

Atsushi Shiiba

Osaka University

Akinobu Shuto

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Date Written: December 25, 2024

Abstract

Previous studies investigating the asymmetry of stock market reactions to news have shown that managers delay the disclosure of bad news. By focusing on the Japanese market, where the information environment for investors regarding management forecasts is well developed and a lot of information is provided to investors, we find that managers disclose bad news earlier. Furthermore, we show that the higher the market's expectations of management's forecasts at the beginning of the fiscal year, the earlier management disclose bad news. We focus on disclosure systems outside the U.S., and contribute to previous studies by showing that differences in disclosure systems affect management's disclosure behavior.

Keywords: corporate disclosure, bad news, management forecasts, Japan

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Iwasaki, Takuya and Otomasa, Shota and Shiiba, Atsushi and Shuto, Akinobu, Do managers really disclosure bad news early? Examination of management forecast in Japan’s effectively mandated disclosure (December 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5071787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5071787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
678
RANK
747,753
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies