Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer pricing rules of Azerbaijan: reporting and penalties in 2025

7 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2025

Farid Nabili

Baku State University - Law School; Caspian Legal Center

Date Written: December 29, 2024

Abstract

The concept of “transfer prices” is newly introduced into Azerbaijani tax law. The transfer pricing rules of Azerbaijan are effective since 2017. The Tax Code (Article 14-1) provides for the general definitions and rules of controlled transactions and applicable transfer pricing methods.

In this Article, Azerbaijan's transfer pricing rules and documentation requirements, reporting format and deadlines, and new penalties for non-compliance applicable from 2025 are elaborated. 

Keywords: transfer pricing rules in Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani Tax Law, Tax Code of Azerbaijan

Ethics Approval

As author of the article I consent to its publication at SSRN. All ethical rules and laws are followed.

Suggested Citation:

Nabili, Farid, Transfer pricing rules of Azerbaijan: reporting and penalties in 2025 (December 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5075617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5075617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,094
RANK
834,175
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies