Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leveraging Business Intelligence for Financial Performance Analysis: A Case Study of Indonesian Local Government Budgets

13 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Fachroh Fiddin Fiddin

Polytechnic State of Bengkalis

Nur Rahmani

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Via Dwikurnia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 25, 2024

Abstract

The research aims to design and implement data from the regional financial information system (SIKD) into a performance visualization dashboard for regional government budgets across Indonesia. The data used includes the budget structure and the realization of the APBD (Regional Budget), specifically revenue, expenditure, and financing across all regional governments in Indonesia. This study adopts a Research and Development (R&D) methodology, utilizing the Agile Development approach (Define, Prototype, Build, Deploy), resulting in an interactive dashboard created with Microsoft Power BI to visualize regional financial performance in terms of revenue, expenditure, and financing. The budget performance dashboard also assists accountants in monitoring overall budget performance and supports more effective decision-making through interactive data visualization. Moreover, the dashboard benefits the academic community, especially accounting lecturers and students, as a learning tool that enhances understanding and analytical thinking in regional financial management. For the general public, the dashboard offers transparent access to budget performance information, allowing them to comprehend how regional governments manage financial resources for public services. The results of this research demonstrate that the dashboard not only improves transparency but also serves as an effective tool for financial analysis and accounting education.

Keywords: Data visualization for accounting, Government Revenue and Expenditure Budget, Financial Dashboard, regional financial information system (SIKD), Regional Budget Performance Visualization, Visual analytics, Interactive Dashboard, Data Visualization, Big data visualization, Business Intelligence

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that there are no personal, financial, or professional interests that could influence or be perceived to influence the outcomes of this research. All stages of the study were conducted independently and transparently without influence from any third party.

Ethics Approval

This study did not involve human participants or require ethics approval.

Funder Statement

This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.

Suggested Citation:

Fiddin, Fachroh and Rahmani, Nur and Dwikurnia, Via, Leveraging Business Intelligence for Financial Performance Analysis: A Case Study of Indonesian Local Government Budgets (October 25, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5079489 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5079489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
N Kroon , M Do Céu Alves , I Martins
The impacts of emerging technologies on accountants' role and skills: Connecting to open innovation-a systematic literature review
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity , volume 7 , issue 3 Posted: 2015
D A Putri , V Pratiwi
Pengembangan Multimedia Interaktif DIGITAX (Digital Tax Administration Media) Berbasis Web Menggunakan Google Sites pada Mata Pelajaran Administrasi Pajak Kelas XI SMK
Jurnal Pendidikan Akuntansi (JPAK) , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 94 - 105 Posted: 2022
S M Rîndașu
Emerging information technologies in accounting and related security risks-what is the impact on the Romanian accounting profession
Journal of Accounting and Management Information Systems , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 581 - 609 Posted: 2017
T D S Tanwir , J Setiawan
Visualisasi Perbandingan Anggaran Pendapatan Dan Belanja Daerah (APBD) Pemerintah Provinsi Kabupaten Dan Kota di Indonesia Periode 2010-2014
Jurnal Ilmu Sistem Informasi , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 100 - 105 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,448
RANK
496,121
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies