Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of financial reporting in terms of costs for decision-making

15 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

PANTAZI Anca Alexandra

Universitatea Athenaeum

Elena Liliana Coman

University of Valahia Targoviste

Date Written: November 23, 2022

Abstract

Integrated accounting allows you to connect all systems so that they work together smoothly. In the past, companies have used separate tools for separate purposes in accounting, invoicing, sales, customer management and so on. Managing these different data flows ensures consistency between reports being resource-rich, often inaccurate. The emergence of the Industrial Revolution 4.0 created a new face in the advance phase of information technology. Currently, the government is taking rapid steps towards a superior business strategy by creating an integrated roadmap for the implementation of the business strategy. The Industrial Revolution 4.0 has had a huge impact on all sectors of the world economy, especially in the manufacturing industry, which has begun to enter automated trends and data sharing. The scope of the Industrial Revolution 4.0 includes cyber systems, the Internet of Things (IoT), the cloud and cognitive computing. Currently, the birth of digital technology within the framework of the Industrial Revolution 4.0 has an impact on the lives of people around the world.

Keywords: System, accounting, finance, cost, management

Suggested Citation:

PANTAZI, Anca Alexandra and Coman, Elena Liliana, Analysis of financial reporting in terms of costs for decision-making (November 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5082672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5082672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R L Da Costa , L Pereira , Á Dias , R Gongalves , C H Jerónimo
Balanced Scorecard Adoption în Healthcare
Int. J. Electron. Healthc , volume 12 , p. 22 - 40 Posted: 2022
S Dash , S K Shakyawar , M Sharma , S Kaushik
Big data în healthcare: Management, analysis, & future prospects
J. Big Data , volume 6 Posted: 2019
D M Drum , A Pulvermacher
Accounting Automation & Insight at the Speed of Thought
Journal of Emerging Technologies în Accounting , volume 13 Posted: 2016
D Dugdale , C Jones , S Green
Contemporary Management Accounting Practices în UK Manufacturing Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
341
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies