Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Merchant Guild Culture and Internal Control Quality: Evidence from China

42 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2025

Haozhou Yin

Guizhou University of Finance and Economics

Jin Tan

Changzhou University

xu wei

Changzhou University

Jin Geng

China University of Political Science and Law

Abstract

This study aims to elucidate the variations in internal control quality among contemporary firms from the vantage of informal institutions. We argue that merchant guilds during imperial China placed a strong emphasis on internal control, and modern enterprises have drawn nourishment from these traditions and customs. By employing a firm-level proxy for merchant guild culture (MGC) based on geographic proximity and the Dibo internal control index, we find that firms with high-quality internal control are often located closer to the origins of merchant guilds. This conclusion remains robust across a series of tests. Additionally, we conduct further examinations to validate our conclusions. Our study demonstrates that MGC focuses on risk control and institutional compliance, thereby contributing new insights to the realm of informal institutions in accounting research. It also underscores the importance of adapting mature capital market theories and practices to align with local value systems, especially for emerging markets or developing countries.

Keywords: Merchant Guild Culture, Internal Control Quality, Social Norm, Informal Institutions

Suggested Citation:

Yin, Haozhou and Tan, Jin and wei, xu and Geng, Jin, Merchant Guild Culture and Internal Control Quality: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5087345 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5087345
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
G A Akerlof
The missing motivation in macroeconomics
American Economic R eview , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 36 Posted: 2007
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Jou rnal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX i nternal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
G S Bae , S U Choi , P T Lamoreaux , J E Lee
Auditors' Fee Premiums and Low-Quality Internal Controls
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 586 - 620 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
553
RANK
785,592
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies