Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unveiling Climate-Related Disclosure: Unraveling the Best Measurement Approach

45 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2025

Aisa Tri Agustini

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jogiyanto Hartono M.

affiliation not provided to SSRN

choirunnisa arifa

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Accounting

Zuni Barokah

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Climate change is a critical sustainability issue impacting corporate strategies and operations. Regulations and policies increasingly require companies to disclose the risks and opportunities related to climate change that significantly influence the company's future prospects. This study provides a comprehensive overview of climate-related disclosure, with a focus on theoretical aspects and measurement techniques. We reviewed 93 articles from the Scopus Database, covering the period from 2009 to 2024, using a systematic review approach. Our research identifies a growing trend in studies on climate change disclosure. Our review highlights that the variety of standards contributes to inconsistencies in climate change disclosure indicators, which are crucial for primary users of financial statements. Despite standard variations and biases in measurement techniques, using multiple climate change disclosure measurements or integrating various databases can enhance the validity of findings. This study proposes a framework for more effective measurement of climate change disclosure, better capturing the complexity and dynamics of climate-related risks. Additionally, the study suggests future research directions for theoretical development and effectiveness testing of more comprehensive measurement techniques. Notably, perfect data is challenging to achieve, and researchers should exercise caution and provide readers with necessary caveats when interpreting results.

Keywords: climate-related disclosures, measurement, systematic literature review

Suggested Citation:

Agustini, Aisa Tri and M., Jogiyanto Hartono and arifa, choirunnisa and Barokah, Zuni, Unveiling Climate-Related Disclosure: Unraveling the Best Measurement Approach. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5087627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5087627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
D , D-)
CDP assigns companies to eight performance bands for climate change disclosures
Daradkeh
apply a scoring system to these bands Posted: 2023
For further information on CDP scores
W N Adger , S Huq , K Brown , C Declan , H Mike
Adaptation to climate change in the developing world
Progress in Development Studies , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 179 - 195 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
646
RANK
556,623
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies