Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Diversification and Audit Fees--- Evidence from Listed Firms in China

38 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2025

Dan Yang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Guiling Zhang

Zhengzhou University of Aeronautics

Shangkun Liang

Central University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

Listed firms in China are required to disclose detailed information of oversea subsidiaries. Through using this unique data, we document that firms with greater depth and scope of global diversification exhibit higher level of audit fees; firms owning complicated business types of oversea subsidiaries and indirectly controlling them exhibit even higher level. The baseline findings are robust to a battery of sensitivity checks. Three underlying mechanisms from both audit supply and demand sides are documented to drive the baseline findings. Further study reveals that global diversification not only positively affects audit fees but also results in higher audit quality.

Keywords: audit fees, audit quality, global diversification, globalization, China

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Dan and Zhang, Guiling and Liang, Shangkun, Global Diversification and Audit Fees--- Evidence from Listed Firms in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5090179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5090179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
536
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies