Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Twenty Years of Mandatory IFRS in Australia: Evidence, Gaps and Future Insights

AASB Research Centre Working Paper No. 25-01

63 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2025

Yan Chen

University of Technology Sydney

Meiting Lu

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Yaowen Shan

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Stephen L. Taylor

University of Technology Sydney; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 14, 2025

Abstract

The year 2025 marks twenty years since Australia’s full-scale adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). When reviewing empirical evidence on post-adoption reporting characteristics, we identify two difficulties in establishing the extent to which the switch to IFRS has been beneficial. These are the reliability of measuring the expected costs and benefits and the difficulty in establishing causal links between IFRS adoption and identifiable costs and benefits. We conclude that the research to date provides relatively little direct evidence of the extent to which mandatory adoption of IFRS achieved its stated objectives and offer suggestions as to where research gaps exist. However, we also look forward and identify emerging concerns about Australia’s commitment to IFRS where standards increasingly address management transparency, as distinct from advancing comparability of recognition and measurement. Finally, we highlight the difference between policy-based evidence and evidence-based policy, concluding that the latter has been largely absent in the decision to mandatorily adopt IFRS. 

Keywords: Accounting standards, IFRS, standard-setting

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yan and Lu, Meiting and Shan, Yaowen and Taylor, Stephen L., Twenty Years of Mandatory IFRS in Australia: Evidence, Gaps and Future Insights (January 14, 2025). AASB Research Centre Working Paper No. 25-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5096241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5096241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,170
RANK
291,291
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies