Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recognition versus Disclosure and Managerial Discretion: Evidence from Japanese Pension Accounting


Forthcoming in Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting


57 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2025 Last revised: 21 Jan 2025

Masaki Kusano

Kyoto University

Date Written: January 21, 2025

Abstract

I examine the impact of disclosing versus recognizing pension liabilities on managerial discretion regarding pension assumptions, exploiting the unique Japanese accounting standard. In Japan, the current pension accounting standard requires firms to recognize pension items―actuarial gains/losses and prior service costs―in consolidated financial statements; however, firms still disclose these items in the notes when preparing unconsolidated financial statements. I find that recognition firms, those that recognize the previously disclosed pension items on the balance sheet, choose higher discount rates than disclosure firms, those that still disclose them in the notes. Further, I find that my results are driven mainly by firms with more debt-contracting incentives. Overall, my findings suggest that mandating the recognition of pension liabilities induces managerial manipulation of pension assumptions.


Keywords: Recognition versus Disclosure, Disclosure, Managerial Discretion, Pension Accounting, Discount Rate, Japan

Declaration of Interest

The author has no conflicts of interest to disclose.

Ethics Approval

The Author has no potential conflicts of interest to disclose.

Funder Statement

Japan Society for the Promotion of Science Grand-in-Aid for Scientific Research (B) and (C) (JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number 23H00866, 20K02008, and 23K01694)

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kusano, Masaki, Recognition versus Disclosure and Managerial Discretion: Evidence from Japanese Pension Accounting
(January 21, 2025). Forthcoming in Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5096525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5096525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
284
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies