Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global convergence of financial reporting and resilience to fiscal spillover shocks

22 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2025

Rong (Irene) Zhong

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 15, 2024

Abstract

In today’s interconnected global economy, economic shocks in one country often propagate across borders, causing significant fluctuations worldwide. Constructing a novel country-to-country multiplex network framework, this study demonstrates that financial reporting convergence enhances a country’s resilience to spillover shocks, resulting in a 16.12% and 23.30% decrease in the sensitivity of employment and value-added to shock-induced fluctuations. This resilience effect arises from network diversification, enabling countries to allocate resources more strategically across a broader range of foreign partners. Our findings are robust to multiple identification strategies. Overall, our study underscores the importance of global financial reporting convergence in reducing network risk and strengthening countries’ economic stability in the face of external shocks.

Suggested Citation:

Zhong, Rong (Irene), Global convergence of financial reporting and resilience to fiscal spillover shocks (November 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5097260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5097260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
315
RANK
856,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies