Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect Of Capital Structure and Board Size on Firm Value of Consumer Goods Companies in Nigeria

25 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2025 Last revised: 13 Mar 2025

Habeeb Akanji

Independent

Date Written: January 15, 2024

Abstract

This study examined the impact of capital structure and board size on firms’ value of listed consumer goods companies in Nigeria. To accomplish this objective, the secondary data that relates to relevant information that depicts the relationship between capital structure, board size and firms’ value will be collected from audited annual report of the listed fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) firms, and NSE Fact book from 2013 to 2022. The study employed the panel data methodology. Thus, empirical data analysis phases sequentially include preliminary analysis, model estimation stage and post estimation tests. The study found that capital structure, and board size exert positive significant relationship on firm’s value of Consumer Goods Companies in Nigeria, based on the objectives of this study. The study concluded that firms should undertake strategic planning for their capital structure, aligning it with the specific growth goals of the fast-moving consumer goods sector in Nigeria. Additionally, consumer goods companies in Nigeria should carefully assess and optimize their board size considering the positive impact revealed in the study. 

Keywords: Capital Structure, board size, firm value, consumer goods companies, Tobin q.

Suggested Citation:

Akanji, Habeeb, Effect Of Capital Structure and Board Size on Firm Value of Consumer Goods Companies in Nigeria (January 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5097357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5097357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
H Abdulkarim , A Yusuf , U Isah
Board composition, board size and market value of listed industrial goods companies in Nigeria
International Journal of Research and Innovation in Social Science , volume 4 , issue 12 , p. 14 - 19 Posted: 2020
J Adebiyi , T Abayomi
Research design: A review of features and emerging developments
European journal of business and management , volume 8 , issue 11 , p. 113 - 118 Posted: 2016
S B Adeyemi , C S Oboh
Perceived relationship between corporate capital structure and firm value in Nigeria Posted: 2011
H W Akani , A L Lucky
Capital structure and shareholders' value of commercial banks in Nigeria: A multi-variate study analysis
IIARD International Journal of Economics and Business Management , volume 2 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,029
RANK
538,270
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies