Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alternative Data and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Online Sales Disclosure in China

60 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2025

SQ Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We examine the impact of releasing alternative data on firm-level tax avoidance. By using the public release of firms’ online sales data in a prominent Chinese financial database as an exogenous shock, we find that corporate tax avoidance significantly decreases with the disclosure of such data. This effect concentrates on firms with higher information opacity and with lower stock liquidity. Further analyses show that the negative relation between online sales disclosure and corporate tax avoidance is more pronounced when a firm has higher tax-planning capacity and a higher proportion of online sales relative to revenue than other firms. Our results suggest that disclosing alternative data acts as a disciplinary effect on firms’ opportunistic tax planning, thereby decreasing the benefits and increasing the costs of tax savings.

Keywords: Online sales, tax avoidance, alternative data, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Liu, SQ, Alternative Data and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Online Sales Disclosure in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5100412 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5100412
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
319
RANK
792,195
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies