Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hidden Curricula in Financial Reporting and Analysis for MBA Students - is the Message Received?

33 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2025

Rezarta Shkurti (Perri)

University of Tirana

Donatella Busso

University of Turin

Abstract

Understanding the hidden curriculum is essential for educators to critically assess and adjust the values and beliefs conveyed to students, promoting inclusivity, equity, and ethics in education. This paper studies the informal curriculum design to include interpersonal and soft skills among MBA students in the teaching content of the financial reporting and analysis module. Data from a survey and several focus group interviews with students in an International MBA program are studied using Structural Equation Method analysis. We find evidence that teaching financial reporting and analysis to International MBA students is more effective if diverse methods are employed and if students are encouraged to actively participate in discussions that boost their communication, self-confidence, articulation, and critical thinking. By combining technical skills with soft skills through a group project and in-class activities, we found that engagement and learning experience improved.

Keywords: accounting curriculum design education, informal curricula, accounting for managers.

Suggested Citation:

Shkurti (Perri), Rezarta and Busso, Donatella, Hidden Curricula in Financial Reporting and Analysis for MBA Students - is the Message Received?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5108013 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5108013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
310
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies