Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Reports’ Information Increment, Supervision Upgrade,And Improvement of Business Efficiency

45 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2025

han fang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

chenglong gao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

yongbin zhao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The inclusion of key audit matters (KAMs) in the reformed International Standard on Auditing 701 has provided a new focus for discussion between auditors and business managers. The disclosure of incremental information on KAMs in audit reports has propelled the development of the entire financial reporting supply chain and has facilitated corporate sustainable development. This study examines the impact of information increment in audit reports on the effectiveness of audit supervision and the level of corporate governance in China’s A-share listed companies from 2011 to 2022. The findings suggest that the inclusion of a KAM section in audit reports enhances audit quality. Consequently, auditors focus more on standardizing and improving audit processes, thereby expanding and extending the effectiveness of audit supervision. Furthermore, comprehensive KAM disclosure enhances the transparency and clarity of audit reports. This, in turn, has a more significant positive impact on corporate governance. The positive impact of comprehensive KAM disclosure is more significant in enterprises with lower analyst and investor attention. Further analysis reveals that the information increment effect in audit reports optimizes the input–output efficiency of corporate production factors by enhancing audit quality and reducing financing constraints through KAM disclosure, thereby enhancing corporate value. When KAMs have conclusive evaluations and the disclosed information is accurate, this can effectively improve the financial reporting supply chain and enhance corporate governance. The study findings provide empirical evidence for further enhancing the quality of audit reports, improving the supervision and regulation of corporate behavior, and promoting improved business efficacy.

Keywords: audit report, key audit matters (KAMs), business efficacy, total factor productivity (TFP)

Suggested Citation:

fang, han and gao, chenglong and zhao, yongbin, Audit Reports’ Information Increment, Supervision Upgrade,And Improvement of Business Efficiency. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5111488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5111488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
309
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies