Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
LA REACCIÓN DE LOS MERCADOS DE CAPITALES EUROPEOS A LAS ESTRATEGIAS DE PUBLICACIÓN DEL RESULTADO (Investors' Rewards for Benchmark Beating in Europe)

40 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2025

Ana Gisbert

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Date Written: May 31, 2005

Abstract

The aim of this study is to examine the pricing effect associated with two different earnings patterns: reporting consecutive earnings increases and positive earnings surprises. This paper tests whether investors assign a valuation premium to companies complying with the previous earnings patterns. Tests are based on a large sample of European listed firms. Particularly, on the following European markets: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Using a methodological approach similar to Barth et al. [1999], based on the Ohlson [1995] model, results show how markets' rewards for most of the European countries are not so prevalent as for the US markets, suggesting institutional differences as a potential explanatory factor. In addition, the paper examines whether the extent of the premium assigned varies depending on the quality of earnings.

Note: Downloadable document is in Spanish.

Keywords: Earnings patterns, benchmark beating behaviour, market valuation

Suggested Citation:

Gisbert, Ana, LA REACCIÓN DE LOS MERCADOS DE CAPITALES EUROPEOS A LAS ESTRATEGIAS DE PUBLICACIÓN DEL RESULTADO (Investors' Rewards for Benchmark Beating in Europe) (May 31, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5119143 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5119143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Y Ali , P Zarowin
The role of earnings levels in annual earnings-returns studies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 286 - 296 Posted: 1992
Auditing , Board
Aggressive Earnings Management Posted: 2001
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
D Bao , B Bao
Income smoothing, earnings quality and firm valuation
Journal of Business, Finance and Accounting , volume 31 , issue 9 , p. 1525 - 1557 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
169
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies