Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Policy Choices for R&D Expenditures Under the Super Deduction Policy: Based on Cash Flow Acquisition Motivations

24 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2025

hehe nannan

Shanxi University of Finance and Economics

Wanjing Dong

Shanxi University of Finance and Economics

Mengge Cao

Shanxi University of Finance and Economics

Panpan Hao

Shanxi University of Finance and Economics

Xiaoyan Wang

Shanxi University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

As R&D expenditures can be capitalized conditionally in many countries such as China, the implementation of the pre-tax super deduction policy for R&D expenses often leads to differences between one-time deductions and amortized deductions due to the specific treatment of R&D expenses as either expenses or capitalized assets. This paper investigates whether the super deduction policy encourages China’ listed companies to engage in earnings management through the strategic selection of R&D accounting policies. The results show that the greater the tax benefit a company receives, the more likely it is to record R&D expenditures as expenses.

Keywords: pre-tax super deduction policy, Earnings management, cash flow acquisition

Suggested Citation:

nannan, hehe and Dong, Wanjing and Cao, Mengge and Hao, Panpan and Wang, Xiaoyan, The Accounting Policy Choices for R&D Expenditures Under the Super Deduction Policy: Based on Cash Flow Acquisition Motivations. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5133342 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5133342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
R Du , Y Li
The Enterprising R&D Activities and the Earnings Management -The Adaptive Behavior of Micro-enterprises to Macroeconomic Policies
Science Research Management， , volume 2018 , issue 3 , p. 122 - 131
R Ma
Managerial Earnings, R&D Expenditures and Surplus Management: An Empirical Analysis of Chinese Listed Companies
Jiangxi Social Sciences， , volume 2012 , issue 2 , p. 246 - 250
H L Xiao , M Zhou
R&D Expenditure and Earnings Management -An Empirical Study Based On the Accounting Policy of R&D[J]
Securities Market Herald， , volume 2012 , issue 10 , p. 48 - 54
Cooper J C， Selto F H
An experimental examination of the effects of SFAS NO.2 on R&D investment decisions
Accounting， Organizations and Society , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 227 - 242 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
253
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies