Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosures of Carbon Credits in Australia

AASB Research Centre Working Paper

24 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Eric Lee

Australian Government - Australian Accounting Standards Board

Eka Tan

Deakin University

Joanne Tingey

University of South Australia

Date Written: February 12, 2025

Abstract

The paper contributes to understanding the complexity of carbon credit disclosures and the recognition landscape in Australia. Carbon accounting and disclosure of carbon credits are subject to complex political and technical factors. Through detailing various policy initiatives and market mechanisms that have evolved in Australia, the paper highlights the need to create coherent links between the acquisition and use of carbon offsets financial statements and sustainability reports. A review of the reporting practices of 100 ASX entities highlights the increasing importance of carbon offsets and credits in corporate disclosures, reflecting their growing prominence in climate-related strategies and reporting frameworks aligned with the agenda of global standard setters. However, standardisation of disclosure, which enhances alignment between financial and non-financial reporting, could better meet the needs of stakeholders by providing a cohesive narrative that integrates sustainability-related considerations into the broader corporate decision-making process. Importantly, there is a lack of specificity around the 'use' of carbon credits, an ambiguity that could be particularly problematic given the growing demand for transparency in carbon markets. The paper further identifies and highlights future research opportunities and calls for more research to inform the IASB's decision-making process regarding pollutant pricing mechanisms.

Keywords: carbon credit, carbon market, standard setting, IASB, ISSB

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Eric and Tan, Eka and Tingey, Joanne, Disclosures of Carbon Credits in Australia (February 12, 2025). AASB Research Centre Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5134021 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5134021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
2021 A record year for Australia's carbon markets
Ministers for the Department of Industry, Science, and Resources Posted: 2022-09-01
B Bui , C J Fowler
Strategic responses to changing climate change policies: The role played by carbon accounting
Australian Accounting Review , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 360 - 375 Posted: 2019
B Choi , L Luo , P Shrestha
The value relevance of carbon emissions information from Australian-listed companies
Australian Journal of Management , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 23 Posted: 2021
Quarterly Carbon Market Report Posted: 2023-08
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
828
RANK
375,525
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies