Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are U.S. GAAP-Based and IFRS-Based Accounting Amounts more Comparable After the Revised Lease Standards? Evidence from ASC 842 and IFRS 16

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Apr 2025

Yiwen Li

Villanova University

Lucy Huajing Chen

Villanova University - Accountancy

Jennifer Lynne M. Altamuro

Villanova University - Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 16, 2025

Abstract

This study examines whether the revised lease standards (ASC 842 and IFRS 16) make U.S. GAAP-based accounting amounts more comparable with IFRS-based accounting amounts. Our study is motivated by the FASB and the IASB's call for research on the comparability of the revised lease standards. We find that U.S. GAAP and IFRS pairs that are high operating lease users experience a larger increase in accounting comparability after the adoption of revised lease standards than low operating lease U.S. GAAP-IFRS pairs. Additionally, our results suggest that the improvement comes more from the changes to the balance sheet rather than the income statement and is more pronounced for IFRS firms from countries with stronger accounting enforcement. Lastly, we show that analysts who are more GAAP-focused (IFRS-focused) prior to the standard change are more likely to increase their forecasting of book value per share for IFRS (U.S. GAAP) firms. 

Keywords: lease, comparability, regulation, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yiwen and Chen, Lucy Huajing and Altamuro, Jennifer Lynne M., Are U.S. GAAP-Based and IFRS-Based Accounting Amounts more Comparable After the Revised Lease Standards? Evidence from ASC 842 and IFRS 16 (January 16, 2025). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5136326
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies