Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A review of the relationship between Cash value and conservatism in economics and accounting

15 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Jafar Azizi

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Tehran North Branch

Masoomeh Nasimi

Islamic Azad University

Date Written: February 08, 2025

Abstract

In the present study, the relationship between cash holdings, accounting conservatism and the impact of controlling shareholders on this relationship in companies listed on the Tehran Stock Exchange from 2016 to 2022 has been examined. This research is applied and conducted using a survey analysis method. To test the hypotheses and analyze the relationships between variables, multiple linear regressions were used. The results of the first model show a significant inverse relationship between cash holdings and accounting conservatism. Furthermore, the findings indicate that with the increase in company size, the level of accounting conservatism also increases. At the same time, leverage ratio has a significant negative relationship with accounting conservatism, while the growth rate shows a significant positive relationship with it. In the second model, with the presence of the moderating variable of controlling shareholders, empirical evidence suggests a significant positive relationship between cash holdings and accounting conservatism. Additionally, as observed in the first model, company size and leverage ratio are inversely related to accounting conservatism, while growth rate has a positive relationship with accounting conservatism. Overall, the results indicate that controlling shareholders significantly moderate the relationship between cash holdings and accounting conservatism.

Keywords: Cash holdings, accounting conservatism, controlling shareholders

Declaration of Interest

We don't any financial relationship with other person or organization

Ethics Approval

we are researcher and write papers. we like to research and academic activity

Funder Statement

no One.

Suggested Citation:

Azizi, Jafar and Nasimi, Masoomeh, A review of the relationship between Cash value and conservatism in economics and accounting (February 08, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5138879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5138879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
388
RANK
785,592
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies