Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An evaluation of how lessees transitioned to IFRS 16 Leases and the impact on financial reports: Implications for standard setters

31 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Sebastian Onie

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Helen Spiropoulos

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Peter Alfred Wells

University of Technology Sydney, Accounting Discipline Group ; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: December 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases by a broad sample of firms and examines its impact on their financial statements. The majority of firms employed the cumulative approach to transition, including those where the transition materially affected the financial statements. Under this approach, adjustments are made to the opening balance of the transition period, and prior period information is not restated. This finding has significant implications for standard setters, questioning whether the flexibility in transitioning to new accounting standards should be conditioned on materiality. While most firms experienced minor impacts from the transition, certain firms, particularly those with substantial leases of land and buildings, faced significant effects. The necessity and impact of regulation on these leases warrants further investigation. Evidence is provided that off-balance sheet leases can be estimated from financial report disclosures with varying degrees of accuracy, calling into question whether recognition or disclosure is the best approach for certain lease contracts.

Keywords: IFRS 16, IFRS, Leases, Financial Reporting JEL Classification : M41

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Onie, Sebastian and Spiropoulos, Helen and Wells, Peter Alfred, An evaluation of how lessees transitioned to IFRS 16 Leases and the impact on financial reports: Implications for standard setters (December 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5138749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5138749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
J Altamuro , R Johnston , S Pandit , H Zhang
Operating Leases and Credit Assessments
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2014
M E Barth , G Clinch , T Shibano
Market Effects of Recognition and Disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 4 , p. 581 - 609 Posted: 2003
V Beattie , A Goodacre , S J Thomson
International lease-accounting reform and economic consequences: The views of U.K. users and preparers
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 103 Posted: 2006
B K Bennett , M E Bradbury
Capitalizing Non-cancelable Operating Leases
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 114 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
RANK
493,078
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies