Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Statement of Cash Flows and Related Matters -Australian Listed Entities

AASB Research Centre Working Paper No. 25-03

30 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2025

Hang Tran

Australian Government - Australian Accounting Standards Board

Eric Lee

Australian Government - Australian Accounting Standards Board

Millicent Chang

University of Wollongong

Dean Hanlon

RMIT

Date Written: February 18, 2025

Abstract

In response to feedback received from the 2022 International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) Third Agenda Consultation, standard setters have been actively considering and suggesting ways to enhance cash flow statements and related matters to better meet the needs of financial statement users. This research report provides findings from an analysis of the annual reports of the top 50 entities listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) in 2023. Key findings drawn from this examination show that most Australian entities in the sample adopted both direct and indirect presentation of cash flows from operating activities. There was a variation in the starting point used for the indirect method but net profit/loss after tax was prevalent. Nearly half of the sample did not disaggregate the amounts of cash and cash equivalents. Further, many entities considered three months to be the threshold of short-term maturity, which aligns with the suggestion in IAS 7. In terms of the classification of operating, investing and financing activities, there was inconsistency in the classification of cash flow items, particularly cash receipts and payments related to interest and dividends. There was also limited disclosure of tax in the investing and financing sections of sample entities' cash flow statements. Regarding the voluntary disclosures encouraged by IAS 7, while almost all entities reported undrawn borrowings, there was little disclosure of segmental cash flows and cash flows representing growth and maintenance of operating capacities. Free cash flow was commonly disclosed although its measurement and location within the annual report varied across the sample. These findings provide additional evidence that there is diversity in practice on how cash flow statements and related information are disclosed. The findings support and recommend that IAS 7 be revised and improved so that more consistent and useful information about cash flows will meet user needs.

Keywords: Statement of Cash Flows, Free Cash Flows, IAS 7, IASB

Suggested Citation:

Tran, Hang and Lee, Eric and Chang, Millicent and Hanlon, Dean, Statement of Cash Flows and Related Matters -Australian Listed Entities (February 18, 2025). AASB Research Centre Working Paper No. 25-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5142379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5142379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
K W Adame , J L Koski , K W Lem , S E Mcvay
Free cash flow disclosure in earnings announcements
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2023
A Adhikari , A Duru
Voluntary disclosure of free cash flow information
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 311 - 332 Posted: 2006
J U Ahmed
Documentary research method: New dimensions
Indus Journal of Management & Social Sciences , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2010
C N Albu , N Albu , S Hoffmann
The Westernisation of a financial reporting enforcement system in an emerging economy
Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) (1997) AASB 1026: Statement of Cash Flows. Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) , volume 51 , p. 71 - 297 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,208
RANK
337,844
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies