Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting is the Language of Sustainability

38 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2025

Peter D. Easton

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Gary K. Taylor

University of Alabama - Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration

George W. Ruch

University of Denver - School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 06, 2025

Abstract

This paper is based on a presentation at the 2024 Accounting and Business Research, International Accounting Policy Forum in Berlin. We thank participants at the forum for their helpful comments ABSTRACT We discuss the FASB Conceptual Framework as a foundation for developing an environmental accounting system. We describe three proposed carbon accounting systems. We introduce a carbon accounting measurement framework for net-zero pledges that parallels the financial reporting framework for lease accounting (ASC Topic 842). Under this framework, entities prepare emission reduction schedules to achieve net-zero targets by a specific date. This proposed framework creates a Pledge Asset and a Pledge Liability account (the present value of projected emissions) as beginning balances, which are amortized in a manner similar to lease assets and liabilities. A Carbon Flow Statement tracks actual emissions and pledge variances, providing information regarding an entity's progress toward its net-zero target. Significant variances may result in a revised emission reduction schedule or target date. The pledges may be monitored and audited.

Keywords: carbon emissions, accounting, net zero, carbon pledge, sustainability

Suggested Citation:

Easton, Peter D. and Taylor, Gary Kenneth and Ruch, George W., Accounting is the Language of Sustainability (February 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5153689 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5153689
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Accountability
AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Posted: 2024
M Buffett , D Clark
Warren Buffett and the Interpretation of Financial Statements: The Search for the Company with a Durable Competitive Advantage Posted: 2008
Leading Organizations Form the Carbon Call to Address Reliability and Interoperability in Carbon Accounting for the Planet Posted: 2022-02-10
Z Colman
Exxon's Chief Has a Warning for Republicans Posted: 2024-11-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
587
RANK
459,276
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies