Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shaping collective action in financial markets through popular expertise: An analysis of Due Diligence posts on WallStreetBets

Accounting, Organizations and Society, volume 114, 2025[10.1016/j.aos.2024.101588]

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2025-1552

79 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2025 Last revised: 3 Apr 2025

Yves Gendron

Université Laval

Alexandre Madelaine

Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Date Written: October 17, 2024

Abstract

In 2021, a social movement rallying retail investors unexpectedly shocked Wall Street, forcing a prominent multi-billion-dollar hedge fund to shut down one year later, after incurring massive financial losses. Social movements in financial markets have significantly developed in the wake of the 2007–09 financial crisis, resulting in the emergence of various collective actions. We analyze one recent example of such action undertaken by the r/WallStreetBets (WSB) community on Reddit, which disrupted the stock prices of several “meme stocks” (e.g., GameStop) by disseminating influential investment narratives. We analyze the 150 most upvoted Due Diligence posts on WSB and interview eight members of its community. We find that a popular expertise in investment narratives emerged, developed, and was propagated on this digital platform. WSB authors’ claim to popular expertise is made in a hybrid language combining traditional financial expertise with an accessible and entertaining writing style, complemented by references to pop culture. Our analysis brings out a growing resentment among retail investors about the unfairness of financial markets, and its role in mobilizing them for collective action that challenged the existing order of things. Yet this widespread resentment did not spontaneously translate into a meaningful, sustainable collective action initiative. Our thesis is that the development of popular expertise played an instrumental role in the formation of WSB’s collective action initiative targeting several perceived investment opportunities. 

Keywords: Collective action, Digital platforms, Fairness in financial markets, Popular expertise, Social movement, WallStreetBets

JEL Classification: M4, G1, G41

Suggested Citation:

Gendron, Yves and Madelaine, Alexandre and Paugam, Luc and Stolowy, Hervé, Shaping collective action in financial markets through popular expertise: An analysis of Due Diligence posts on WallStreetBets (October 17, 2024). Accounting, Organizations and Society, volume 114, 2025[10.1016/j.aos.2024.101588], HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2025-1552, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5160385 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2024.101588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
168 References
A D Abbott
The system of professions. An essay on the division of expert labor Posted: 1988
P Agrawal , T Buz , G De Melo
WallStreetBets beyond GameStop, YOLOs, and the moon: The unique traits of Reddit's finance communities. University of Potsdam: Available at Posted: 2022
M Akrich , V Rabeharisoa , G Eyal , Medvetz
On the multiplicity of lay expertise: An empirical and analytical overview of patient associations' achievements and challenges
The Oxford handbook of expertise and democratic politics , p. 103 - 133 Posted: 2023
M Alvesson
The triumph of emptiness: Consumption, higher education, & work organization Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,460
RANK
753,736
1 Citations
168 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies