Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
La contabilidad de los bancos como herramienta de estabilidad financiera y los conflictos de interés: un análisis comparado entre los bancos y las cajas de ahorro españolas  (Bank Accounting as a Tool for Financial Stability and Conflicts of Interest: A Comparative Analysis of the Spanish Banks and Saving Banks)

40 Pages Posted: 1 May 2025

Araceli Mora

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Begoña Giner

University of Valencia

Natividad Cervera

University of Valencia

Date Written: September 20, 2024

Abstract

This study argues, illustrates and reflects on the possible unintended consequences of two growing features of the European accounting standardisation process, the objective of financial stability and the increasing political interference. After analysing the accounting literature, we illustrate the arguments with the case of the Spanish financial sector in the financial crisis period, 2008-2011, in which a prudential loan impairment accounting model (the so-called Spanish “dynamic provision”) was used. Using a simulation methodology and a multivariate model applied to a sample of savings banks and banks, we conclude that the application of the prudential model interfered with the information relevance objective, and that this effect was greater in the institutions with normally greater political influence, the savings banks. Our reflections contribute to the current debate on the risks of using accounting as a tool to achieve purposes other than informational usefulness.

Note: Downloadable document is in Spanish.

Keywords: credit deterioration, dynamic provisioning, bank accounting, Bank of Spain, banks, financial crisis, saving banks

Funder Statement

Ministerio de Ciencia e Innovación PID2020-117792RA-I00, PID2023-150744NB-C42

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G34, G48

Suggested Citation:

Mora, Araceli and Giner Inchausti, Begoña and Cervera, Natividad, La contabilidad de los bancos como herramienta de estabilidad financiera y los conflictos de interés: un análisis comparado entre los bancos y las cajas de ahorro españolas  (Bank Accounting as a Tool for Financial Stability and Conflicts of Interest: A Comparative Analysis of the Spanish Banks and Saving Banks) (September 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5160379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5160379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
126 References
*** mediana Posted: 1080
Cada año se indica entre paréntesis el número de entidades analizadas (cajas/bancos)
En los test de diferencias de medias se indica el valor del estadístico y entre paréntesis la significación. ***, ** y * representan valores estadísticamente significativos a niveles del 1%, 5% y 10% respectivamente
M Abela , A Mora
Understanding the consequences of accounting standards in Europe: the role of EFRAG. Accounting in Europe , volume 9 , p. 147 - 170 Posted: 2012
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
326
126 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies