Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The spillover effect of ADR activity on stock price synchronicity: Empirical evidence in emerging markets

Forthcoming, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

45 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2025 Last revised: 6 Mar 2025

Dante Viana Jr.

Faculty of Economics, University of Algarve, Portugal

Date Written: March 06, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates the intra-industry spillover effect of American Depositary Receipt (ADR) issuance on the stock price synchronicity of non-ADR firms from emerging markets. Based on a sample of listed firms from six Latin American countries, although I find some evidence of a decrease in stock price synchronicity among ADR issuers in post-ADR issuance periods, the main findings suggest that non-ADR firms from industries with ADR issuance activity have higher levels of synchronicity on average than non-ADR firms from industries with no ADR issuance activity. These cross-country average results are robust to different regression methods and alternative subsamples employed to mitigate endogeneity concerns. Even though this trend is confirmed for the majority of the Latin American countries under review, individual-country analyses indicate a synchronicity-decreasing effect of ADR industry activity, particularly for non-ADR Chilean firms. Complementary, more in-depth empirical analyses suggest that country-level factors and ADR firm characteristics play an essential role in this issue. My main findings document that the overall positive spillover effect of ADR activity on the stock price synchronicity of non-ADR firms in Latin America is non-monotonic. These exploratory findings contribute to the active debate regarding the impact of ADR issuance on local economies, particularly with respect to the informativeness of financial reporting available in the capital markets.

Keywords: American Depositary Receipt, stock price synchronicity, emerging markets, Latin America

Suggested Citation:

Viana Jr., Dante, The spillover effect of ADR activity on stock price synchronicity: Empirical evidence in emerging markets (March 06, 2025). Forthcoming, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5168001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5168001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
G J Alexander , C S Eun , S Janakiramanan
Asset pricing and dual listing on foreign capital markets: A note
The Journal of Finance , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 158 Posted: 1987
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
C B Aybar
The long-term performance of privatization-related ADR issues
Emerging Markets Review , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 164 Posted: 2002
X Bai , Y Dong , N Hu
Financial report readability and stock return synchronicity
Applied Economics , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 346 - 363 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
322
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies