Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Quickly Auditors Resign from Engagements? An Examination of Auditor Resignation Lag

Pacific Accounting Review (forthcoming)

Posted: 12 Mar 2025

Kam Wah Lai

Hong Kong Shue Yan University

Date Written: February 25, 2025

Abstract

Purpose – This paper examines factors that determine the time lapse between audit report date and resignation date (the resignation lag).  As supporting tests, it also studies auditor resignation and client risk portfolio of the resigning auditor. 

Design/methodology/approach – This paper uses a high-profile case in Hong Kong and a logistic regression to study resignation lag, an ordinary least squares regression to examine auditor resignation, and t-tests and chi-square tests to investigate the risk portfolio of clients dropped, retained and taken-up by the auditor.

Findings – This paper reports that resignation lag is shorter for clients listed on the main board, with a reported loss or high leverage.  The results of a reported loss and high leverage indicate that riskier clients are dropped sooner by the auditor.  It also finds that more risky clients are dropped by the auditor and less likely taken up by other Big 4 auditors, and dropped clients become riskier after being dropped.  In addition, new clients are not more risky than continuing clients but less risky than clients dropped.

Research limitations/implications – Since client risk could not be measured by a single risk variable, the conclusion of the results depends on the totality of the results of all variables used.  Generalisation of the results should be done cautiously due to the small sample size.  As the literature lacks a model that explains resignation lag, the results could be different had such a model exists.

Originality/value – The investigation of resignation lag advances the literature because it is in the interest of auditors to drop more unfavourable engagements sooner.  This efficiency issue, absent in prior studies, is important to an understanding of the audit market.  In addition, resignation lag could serve as an observable, summary measure of the resigning auditors’ assessment of client risk, and participants in the market could infer the riskiness of dropped clients using resignation lag.  

Keywords: Timing of resignation, Client risk, Efficiency, Portfolio management

Suggested Citation:

Lai, Kam Wah, How Quickly Auditors Resign from Engagements? An Examination of Auditor Resignation Lag (February 25, 2025). Pacific Accounting Review (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5168204
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
162
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies