Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Private Issuers' Application of IFRS around the Elimination of the 20-F Reconciliation Requirement

The International Journal of Accounting, volume 48, issue 1, 2013[10.1016/j.intacc.2013.01.006]

44 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2025

Tzu-Ting Chiu

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Yen-Jung Lee

National Taiwan University

Date Written: December 04, 2012

Abstract

This study examines how the elimination of the 20-F reconciliation requirement affects the quality of accounting data prepared by cross-listed firms that report under IFRS as promulgated by the IASB (hereafter CL IFRS firms). Using IFRS-adopting firms that are not cross-listed in the U.S. (hereafter NCL IFRS firms) as the control sample, we find that CL IFRS firms experience a decrease in the magnitude of accounting discretion, a change in the asymmetric timeliness of earnings, and an improvement in the value relevance of reported earnings between the pre-and the post-elimination periods. These results suggest that the SEC's previous reconciliation requirement may have an unintended negative effect on CL IFRS firms' incentives in the application of IFRS. Comparing accounting quality under IFRS and U.S. GAAP in the post-elimination period, our additional analysis shows that the quality of accounting data prepared using IFRS by CL IFRS firms is comparable to that prepared using U.S. GAAP by U.S. firms, except that IFRS-based numbers exhibit less earnings asymmetry than U.S. GAAP-based numbers.

Keywords: 20-F reconciliation, IFRS, U.S. GAAP, accounting quality

JEL Classification: G15, G18, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chiu, Tzu-Ting and Lee, Yen-Jung, Foreign Private Issuers' Application of IFRS around the Elimination of the 20-F Reconciliation Requirement (December 04, 2012). The International Journal of Accounting, volume 48, issue 1, 2013[10.1016/j.intacc.2013.01.006], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5169465
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in Four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , issue 1-3 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue 1-3 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang , C D Williams
Accounting Quality: International Accounting Standards and US GAAP: Working Paper Posted: 2007
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang , C D Williams
Are International Accounting Standards-Based and US GAAP-Based Accounting Amounts Comparable? : Working Paper Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
214
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies