Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Valuation of Domestic and Foreign Earnings and the Impact of Investor Sophistication

51 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2004

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Dan Segal

Reichman University

Date Written: March 15, 2004

Abstract

Although several studies have examined how investors value domestic versus foreign earnings, the results are inconsistent. We re-examine this question employing a variance decomposition model which, in contrast to previous research, explicitly considers expectation models for domestic and foreign earnings and allows for time varying discount rates. We document that investors value domestic earnings significantly higher than foreign earnings. We further find that the relative valuation of foreign earnings is an increasing function of the degree of investor sophistication, measured as either the percentage of institutional holdings or the number of institutional owners. Finally, when we classify institutional investors as short-term and long-term following Bushee (1998), we find that the relative valuation of foreign earnings increases with the level of investment by long-term investors. In contrast, there is no significant relation between the degree of ownership by short-term (or transient) investors and the relative valuation of domestic and foreign earnings. Overall, our results are consistent with Thomas' (1999) finding that investors on average underestimate the persistence of foreign earnings due to lack of understanding of firms' foreign operations caused in part by poor disclosure.

Keywords: Foreign earnings, valuation, investor sophistication

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14, G23

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Segal, Dan, The Valuation of Domestic and Foreign Earnings and the Impact of Investor Sophistication (March 15, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=517782 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.517782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
474
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,481
RANK
138,390
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies