Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reasons behind Outsourcing accounting Services for Small Businesses in Afghanistan

8 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2025

Ismatullah Janat

Abasyn University

Date Written: March 15, 2025

Abstract

Abstract
Introduction: Outsourcing accounting service is contemporary strategy for enhancing financial functions of small and medium business to gain competitive advantages in market. This research article is designed to assess the importance of outsourcing accounting services for small and medium-sized businesses in Afghanistan by investigating the potential benefits such as reduction in operational cost, access to external professionals and technologies, focuses on core business activities and risk mitigation benefits. This research article emphasizes on reasons that why should small and medium business utilize outsourced accounting services for the enhancement of their financial performance . Through an existing literatures analysis, this article offers potential insights into how outsourcing accounting services can be beneficial for smal and medium businesses to enhance their financial performance and obtain competitive advantages in market. The detailed analysis of existing literatures provide comprehensive understanding of outsourced accounting services for small and medium business owners in Afghanistan.
Objective: the aim of this research is to investigate the reasons behind outsourcing accounting services for small businesses and explore the key benefits and challenges face in this process for small businesses in Afghanistan
Methods: This research paper utilizes a literature review methodology to investigate the potential aspects of outsourcing accounting services for small sector Business in Afghanistan. The literature was searched based on relevance to the topic and related research papers selected published within the last five years in well- known journals
Result: the findings of research indicates the diferent aspects of using outsourcing accounting services for small businesses in Afghanistan including potential benefits and challenges face in this process, the significant benefits of using outsourcing accounting services listed as cost savings, access to expertise and forces on core business activities while the challenges associated with outsourcing are listed such as leak of financial data, lack of control over financial data and dependency on external expertise

Conclusion: the conclusion part indicates hat outsourcing accounting services provide significant advantages and play as a vital strategy to enhance financial operations and access to professional experts which can lead the business to improve operational performance and obtain business success in the market to provide employment opportunities and reduce poverty levelin lower and middle classes Afghanistan.

Key words: Small business, outsourcing accounting services Benefts of outsourcing, challenges of outsourcing accounting services



Keywords: Small business, outsourcing accounting services, Benefits of outsourcing, challenges of outsourcing accounting services

Suggested Citation:

Janat, Ismatullah, Reasons behind Outsourcing accounting Services for Small Businesses in Afghanistan (March 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5189717 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5189717
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
References
S M Auzair , A Aman , R Maelah , R Amiruddin , N Hamzah
Management control in accounting outsourcing services
Business Strategies Series , volume 14 , issue 2/3 , p. 43 - 49 Posted: 2013
A Bagienska
2016 the demand for professional knowledge as a key factor of the development of outsourcing of financial and accounting services in Poland
Business Management and Education , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 33
H Dekker , T Kawai , J Sakaguchi
Contracting abroad: A comparative analysis of contract design host and home country outsourcing relations
Management Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
RANK
736,113
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies