Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS adoption in the United States: An analysis of the role of the SEC's Chairs

48 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Kirstin Becker

Copenhagen Business School

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

Christoph Pelger

University of Passau; University of Innsbruck; NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Law

Stephen A. Zeff

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Date Written: September 13, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, we study the role of the SEC's Chairs in the possible adoption of IFRS in the United States between 2005-2017. We mobilize the theoretical framework of institutional entrepreneurship to analyze the multidimensional institutional process which involves the streams of problem recognition, policy development and politics. Our qualitative empirical study finds that the SEC Chairs attempted to couple the three streams to different extents to achieve policy breakthroughs on IFRS adoption. We show how the coupling endeavors of Chair Cox opened a temporal window of opportunity for IFRS adoption, while Chairs Schapiro and White were unsuccessful in coupling the streams due to limited recognition of IFRS adoption as a central problem for the SEC, the inability to develop a practicable policy solution and unfavorable conditions in the policy stream. Our paper offers insights into the reasons for the SEC's substantial efforts to introduce IFRS to U.S. capital markets and why these efforts never resulted in a formal decision on adopting IFRS for U.S. issuers. Our findings contribute to literatures on IFRS adoption, the temporal dimension of institutional entrepreneurship and the U.S. debate on IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS adoption, institutional entrepreneurship, regulation, rulemaking process, SEC F53, G18, M41, M48, N42

Ethics Approval

The authors received their institutions’ ethics approval for conducting this research.

Funder Statement

Holger Daske gratefully acknowledges funding from the German Research Foundation (DFG) under the CRC TRR 266 program (“Accounting for Transparency”), Project‐ID 403041268.

Suggested Citation:

Becker, Kirstin and Daske, Holger and Pelger, Christoph and Zeff, Stephen A., IFRS adoption in the United States: An analysis of the role of the SEC's Chairs (September 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5205276 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5205276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
106 References
Iii Cox
Roadmap to mandatory IFRS adoption Posted: 2008
Cox
In early 2008, the political stream outside the SEC was affected by a standoff between the Bush Administration and the Democratic majority in the Senate over the appointment of successors for the two Democratic Commissioners Campos, who left in September 2007, and Nazareth, who departed in January 2008. The understaffed Commission slowed down the policy-making pace, since it prevented Cox from legitimizing any major regulatory reform with bipartisan support for the larger part of 2008. Even though the staff had finished the drafting of the roadmap by the end of
it was only politically feasible for Cox to bring it to a vote after August 1, 2008, when all new Commissioners, the Democrats Luis Aguilar and Elisse Walter and the Republican Troy Paredes (replacing Paul Atkins) Posted: 2003-06
B Allgov ; Elisse , L Walter ; B. Mary , Schapiro
Posted: 2020
James B Bair , Lockhart , L Donald , Kathleen L Kohn , Casey
S. Hrg. 109-464 -Nominations of: Shelia Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
297
106 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies