Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balancing Risk and Reward the Influence of Fas 123r on Cross-Border M&As

57 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2025

Chen Huang

Queen Mary University of London

Tongbin Xu

Dublin City University

Aoran Zhang

Toronto Metropolitan University (formerly Ryerson University)

Zhifang Zhang

Warwick Business School

Abstract

Cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&As), key components of foreign direct investment, carry inherent risks due to cultural and legal differences. This study examines how Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) 123R, mandating expensing of stock options at fair value, impacts CEO risk-taking incentives and cross-border M&A decisions. Using a difference-in-differences approach, we find that FAS 123R led to a significant reduction in cross-border M&A activities among affected firms compared to unaffected firms. This effect is more pronounced for targets in countries with greater cultural and legal differences from the U.S., suggesting reduced risk-taking incentives disproportionately impact higher-risk acquisitions. Affected firms also exhibited improved quality of cross-border deals. Our findings indicate that FAS 123R effectively mitigated agency problems and excessive risk-taking tendencies. When CEOs' risk-taking incentives are curtailed, their cross-border M&A decisions become more conservative and value-enhancing for shareholders, particularly in complex international contexts.

Keywords: CEO compensation, CEO risk-taking incentive, FAS 123R, Cross-border M&A, Foreign direct investment

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Chen and Xu, Tongbin and Zhang, Aoran and Zhang, Zhifang, Balancing Risk and Reward the Influence of Fas 123r on Cross-Border M&As. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5226228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5226228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
K Ahern , D Daminelli , C Fracassi
Lost in translation? The effect of cultural values on mergers around the world
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 1 , p. 165 - 189 Posted: 2015
Y Amihud , B Lev
Risk reduction as a managerial motive for conglomerate mergers
Bell Journal of Economics , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
B Baik , J K Kang , J M Kim , J Lee
The liability of foreignness in international equity investments: Evidence from the US stock market
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 44 , issue 4 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2013
T Bakke , H Mahmudi , C S Fernando , J M Salas
The causal effect of option pay on corporate risk management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 120 , issue 3 , p. 623 - 643 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
296
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies