Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Investments In The Aspect Of Globalisation Of Economy

Proceedings of Azerbaijan High Technical Educational Institutions Journal, Forthcoming

13 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2025

Lamara Qoqiauri

Georgian National Academy of Sciences (GNAS)

Nato Bebiashvili

Georgian Technical University

Namig Isazade

Azerbaijan State University of Economics (UNEC)

Date Written: April 23, 2025

Abstract

The work titled "Foreign Investments in the Aspect of Globalisation of Economy" substantiates that foreign investments today are the main instrument for supplying goods and services in the global marketplace and are one of the most important areas of international economic relations. They increasingly influence the scale, directions, and structure of global economic connections. The views of economists on the reasons for the rapid evolution of recognized forms of foreign investments have been analyzed, and the methodological principles for their study in the context of globalization have been discussed. From this perspective, empirical research has been presented to explain the concept and economic content of foreign investments, specifically its definition according to the Seoul Convention, and the concept of foreign investments in international law; as well as according to the International Monetary Fund and the Georgian law on "Promotion and Guarantees of Investment Activities." Against the backdrop of the global market's integrative processes and economic globalization, the necessity and potential for attracting foreign investments have been addressed. Moreover, in the author's view, the focus should not solely be on boldly attracting investments but also on preserving the accumulated wealth in the country and safeguarding national interests when foreign investments are made; foreign investments should serve as a catalyst for economic growth.

Keywords: investments, foreign investments, international capital flows, investment legislation, investment market

Declaration of Interest

The manuscript has not been submitted to any other journal or conference. No potential conflict of interest was reported by the authors.

Ethics Approval

Not requested

Funder Statement

None.

Suggested Citation:

Submitter, PAHTEI Journal and Qoqiauri, Lamara and Bebiashvili, Nato and Isazade, Namig, Foreign Investments In The Aspect Of Globalisation Of Economy (April 23, 2025). Proceedings of Azerbaijan High Technical Educational Institutions Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5228098 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5228098
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Bian Cheng
National Security Review of Foreign Investment: A Comparative Legal Analysis of China, the United States and the European Union , p. 978 - 1032237572 Posted: 2021
I V Blank
Investments: Theory and Practice Posted: 2018
M Blomström , A Kokko , M Zejan
Foreign Direct Investment: Firm and Host Country Strategies, Publisher: "Palgrave Macmillan Posted: 2000
Buckley Peter , J
Foreign Direct Investment, China and the World Economy , volume 444 , p. 978 - 230515987 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
300
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Agriculture, Natural Resources, & Environmental Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies