Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
R&D Accounting and Innovation Signaling: Insights from Japan's Pre-Regulation Era

51 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025 Last revised: 8 Sep 2025

Kazuyuki Motohashi

University of Tokyo

Tomomi Takada

Kobe University - Graduate School of Business Administration

Ayung Tseng

UC Davis, Graduate School of Management

Date Written: September 08, 2025

Abstract

Can the way firms account for R&D shape how they innovate? We address this question using Japan’s pre-2000 elective regime, which allowed firms to expense or capitalize R&D at project inception, and its 2000 shift to mandatory expensing. We hypothesize that reporting choice reflects financing orientation: equity-oriented firms capitalize R&D to signal project quality, while debt-reliant firms expense R&D to satisfy creditors and communicate via patent disclosures. Consistent with this view, under the elective regime, capitalization is associated with higher patent quality and stock returns, whereas expensing is linked to greater patent volume and higher debt financing. Post-2000, former capitalizers increased patenting volume, consistent with the loss of capitalization’s signaling role. These results reveal the strategic role of R&D accounting and caution against uniform standards that overlook firm-level heterogeneity in innovation and financing objectives. More broadly, the evidence highlights accounting rules as an influential channel shaping firms’ patenting propensity.

Suggested Citation:

Motohashi, Kazuyuki and Takada, Tomomi and Tseng, Ayung, R&D Accounting and Innovation Signaling: Insights from Japan's Pre-Regulation Era (September 08, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5239489 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5239489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
David Aboody , Baruch Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Viral V Acharya , Zhaoxia Xu
Financial dependence and innovation: The case of public versus private firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 124 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 243 Posted: 2017
Mark C Anderson , D Rajiv , S N Banker , Janakiraman
Are selling, general, and administrative costs 'sticky'?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
R Antle , J S Demski , Richard R Nelson
Economic welfare and the allocation of resources for invention
The rate and direction of inventive activity: Economic and social factors , volume 5 , p. 609 - 626 Posted: 1962
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
453
RANK
703,106
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies