Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Exporting Moderates the Impact of Covid-19 on Real Earnings Management in Korea

30 Pages Posted: 8 May 2025

ohong kwon

Korea University

Abstract

Purpose - This study examines the relationship between COVID-19 and Korea's real earnings management (REM). In particular, it explores how changes in REM differ between exporting and domestic firms and investigates whether these differences vary across different pandemic phases.Design/Methodology – Using panel data, this study analyzes Korean firms listed on the stock exchange from 2018 to 2021 to assess the impact of COVID-19 on REM. To examine the causal effect of the pandemic and whether its impact differs between exporting and domestic firms, a difference-in-differences (DID) analysis is employed.Findings - The results indicate that REM increased during the COVID-19 period, mainly through abnormal operating cash flows and abnormal production. However, this increase was less pronounced for exporting firms than domestic firms. In addition, REM was higher during the early phase of the pandemic in 2020 but declined in 2021 as the pandemic stabilized.Originality/value - This study contributes to the literature by suggesting the moderating effect of export activity on the relationship between COVID-19 and REM. Given Korea’s high reliance on exports and the differing recovery speeds of the export and domestic sectors, it is essential to understand how the pandemic affected exporting and domestic firms differently. Furthermore, this study is significant in that it connects REM with the marketing strategies of export and domestic firms.

Keywords: COVID-19, Domestic firms, Exporting firms, Real earnings management

Suggested Citation:

kwon, ohong, How Exporting Moderates the Impact of Covid-19 on Real Earnings Management in Korea. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5239439 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5239439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Descriptive Statistics and Correlation Matrix Table 2 presents the descriptive statistics for the variables used in this study. The mean values of ABCFO_DE and ABDE_PRO are both 0.002. Meanwhile, the mean values of ABCFO and ABPROD are -0.000, and the mean value of ABDE is 0.002. The mean value of EXPORT_DUMMY is 0.278, indicating that approximately 27.8% of the firms in the sample generate export revenue. The mean value of EXPORT_RATIO is 0.089, indicating that export revenue accounts for 8.9% of total revenue. The mean value of BIG4 is 0.364, suggesting that Big 4 accounting firms audit 36.4% of the firms. The average annual sales growth rate (GROW) is 0.135. The leverage ratio (LEV) has a mean value of 0.367, showing that, on average, 36.7% of the firms' assets are financed through debt. The mean value of SIZE
Operating cash flow divided by total assets (OCF) has a mean value of 0.040. Total accruals (TA) exhibit a mean value of -0.033. The mean value of the natural logarithm of audit hours (HOUR) is 7.137. The mean value of MARKET is 0.356, showing that 35.6% of the sample firms are listed on KOSPI. The mean value of INVREC, which represents the proportion of assets tied up in inventory and receivables, is 0.212. The mean value of MB is 1.925, suggesting that
The mean value of LOSS is 0.319, indicating that 31.9% of the sample firms report a net loss
M Alhadab , I Clacher
The impact of audit quality on real and accrual earnings management around IPOs
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 442 - 461 Posted: 2018
S A A Al-Begali , L K Phua
Earnings management in emerging markets: The COVID-19 and family ownership
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
252
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies