Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Comparative Analysis of Online Services of Public, and Private Sector Banks of India in Terms of Customer Satisfaction

10 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Jay Prakash Verma

IIEBM Indus Business School; Pune Institute of Business Management

SAGAR O. MANJARE

Siddhant College of Management Studies

VINAY BHATU NANDRE

Pune Institute of Business Management

Date Written: August 10, 2023

Abstract

The objective of this research is to compare consumer satisfaction with online services provided by Indian public and private banks. Additionally, the managements of India's public and Private sector banks should get direction from this report on how to conduct themselves in the market. The survey was conducted through online mode in selected cities of the India. The objective of this research is to quantify public and private banks' perceptions in India in order to evaluate the calibre of online services and the influence of expectations on perceived quality levels. On the basis of the available literature and the modified SERVQUAL model, testing and final findings on the degree of quality of Public and Private Bank's online services were conducted.

Keywords: Customer Satisfaction, Online Service, Public Banks, Private Banks, SERVQUAL

Suggested Citation:

Verma, Jay Prakash and MANJARE, SAGAR O. and NANDRE, VINAY BHATU,

Comparative Analysis of Online Services of Public, and Private Sector Banks of India in Terms of Customer Satisfaction

(August 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5249265 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5249265
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
S J Kaur , L Ali , M K Hassan , M Al-Emran
Adoption of digital banking channels in an emerging economy: exploring the role of in-branch efforts
Journal of Financial Services Marketing , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 121 Posted: 2021
R Kumra , R K Mittal , L Gunupudi
Trust and its determinants in internet banking: A study of private sector banks in India 1
Information Systems , p. 141 - 158 Posted: 2019
M Pavlović , J Marković , D Marković
Research on client relations in the banking sector, FIMEK, Novi Sad
Economics: theory and practice , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2015
D Rajasulochana , S Murthy
E-Banking And Customers' Satisfaction In Public And Private Sector Banks In Karnataka: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Positive School Psychology , volume 6 , issue 8 , p. 8270 - 8279 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
524
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies