Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Institutional Investors’ Field Visits Influence the Earnings Management Behaviors of the Invested Companies? -- Evidence from China's Listed Companies

40 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025

Xiaoli Wang

Marist College - School of Management

Yi Tan

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Antai College of Economics and Management

Abstract

Corporate site visits have been an important process for institutional investors to understand their invested companies: i.e., assessing an enterprise's operational dynamics, financial health, and market potential etc. This will on one side build the bonding between enterprises and investors and on the other hand help institutional investors in making prudent decisions while mitigating the risks posed by information asymmetry within investment environments. In this study, using data from listed companies on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange in China during period from 2012 to 2021, we study the impacts of institutional investors (II) ' field visits on the earnings management activities of the invested companies. Our results indicate that there is a significant negative relationship between the IIs corporate site visits and the extent of earnings management behaviors of the invested companies. In addition, an exploration of the underlying mechanisms reveals that IIs’ field visits act as a deterrent real earnings management practice by mitigating information asymmetry, improving corporate governance standards, and garnering media attention. Furthermore, considerations are made for heterogeneous effects and found that for firms characterized as in a higher level of marketization area, with a higher level of executives ‘financial background or a lower level of management myopia all exhibit a more pronounced suppressing impact on the companies’ earnings management behaviors from IIs’field visits.

Keywords: Institutional investors' field visits, Earnings management, Information Asymmetry, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xiaoli and Tan, Yi, Do Institutional Investors’ Field Visits Influence the Earnings Management Behaviors of the Invested Companies? -- Evidence from China's Listed Companies. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5251772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5251772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
R M Bowen , S Dutta , S Tang
Inside the "Black Box" of Private In-house Meetings , volume 23 , p. 487 - 527 Posted: 2018
D C Broadstock
Do Corporate Site Visits Constrain Real Earnings Management? Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 39 , p. 492 - 515 Posted: 2024
D C Broadstock , X Chen , C S A Cheng , W Huang , Y Ma
Do Corporate Site Visits Constrain Real Earnings Management? Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 39 , p. 492 - 515 Posted: 2024
Lumeng Cao , Hongyi Liu ; Cao , S , G Gong , H Shi , X Cao , J Hong , W Jia
Research on the Impact of Listed Companies' Debt Financing on Earnings Management -an Empirical Analysis Based on the Perspective of Monetary Policy
Private Information Acquisition and Corporate Investment: Evidence from Corporate Site Visits, SSRN Electronic Journal , volume 37 , p. 141 - 150 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
268
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies