Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting transparency: The secret weapon of trustworthy businesses

International Journal of Science and Research Archive Volume 15, Issue No. 2. pp. 384-396

13 Pages Posted: 14 May 2025

Marzana Mithila

Department of Field Work, Unique Personnel (UK) Limited

Date Written: May 14, 2025

Abstract

In an environment where trust and regulatory scrutiny is becoming common place, transparent accounting has moved from a need for conformity to a requirement for success. This article explores how transparent financial practices, such as real-time auditing, integration of ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance), and proactive disclosure of risks, act as drivers of the trust that is built with investors, employees and customers. Using examples of companies such as Buffer, the startup which found out that radical salary and revenue transparency was the key to scaling success, and Microsoft, which managed to avoid existential crises through granular sustainability reporting, the article outlines how transparency reduces risk by making it easier to access capital and brand loyalty. It also covers systemic issues such as legacy accounting systems that make it difficult to provide data, cultural resistance to open book practices, the challenge of aligning with global standards such as IFRS, and SEC regulations. New directions, like AI-based auditing tools and the immutability promises of the blockchain, are examined as remedies for increasing accuracy and trust. This analysis predicts a future where future regulations like the EU's Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and SEC climate disclosures will have requirements for previously unprecedented levels of transparency. Transparency as a guiding value can save businesses on capital costs, increase stakeholder engagement, and set them apart in crowded markets. The article argues that in a world where trust is at once tenuous and invaluable, transparency is not just nice to have-it is fundamental to long-term growth, good leadership, and to navigating the inevitable vicissitudes of economic and reputational fortune.

Keywords: Accounting Transparency, AI Auditing, ESG Integration, Financial Reporting, Stakeholder Trust, Regulatory Compliance

Suggested Citation:

Mithila, Marzana, Accounting transparency: The secret weapon of trustworthy businesses (May 14, 2025). International Journal of Science and Research Archive Volume 15, Issue No. 2. pp. 384-396, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5254481 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5254481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R Adams , T Nguyen
ESG-Financial Integration and Investor Engagement
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 34 , issue 4 Posted: 2022
Allbirds
IPO Prospectus Posted: 2021-10-17
Plain-Language Financial Communication Guide Posted: 2021-10-15
Bloomberg
ESG Fund Holdings Report Posted: 2023-10-19
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,474
RANK
511,635
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Strategy Models for Firm Performance Enhancement eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies