Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Manufacturing Cost Disclosure: Lessons from Japan for Mandatory Expense Disaggregation

46 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Kiyonori Iwata

Tokyo Keizai Univeristy - Management

Keita Iwasawa

Tokyo University of Science - School of Management

Junko Jinushi

Sophia University - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: May 15, 2025

Abstract

Recent regulatory initiatives, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Update 2024-03, have heightened attention to the granularity of income statement information by mandating greater expense disaggregation, including cost of goods sold. Despite the policy emphasis, empirical evidence on the capital market effects of such disaggregation remains limited due to data confidentiality. Leveraging a unique institutional setting in Japan, where listed manufacturers were required to disclose disaggregated manufacturing costs on an unconsolidated basis until 2013, we examine the price implications of granular cost information. Focusing on mandatory disclosure periods, we find that disaggregated manufacturing costs convey heterogeneous information to equity investors, at least among firms for which unconsolidated statements are likely to be informative. However, after the regime shifted to voluntary disclosure in 2014, over 80% of firms eligible for the exemption ceased disclosure, particularly those for which cost structure information appeared less relevant to investors’ trading decisions. Importantly, the withdrawal of such disclosure was not associated with a decline in price efficiency or firm valuation. Our findings offer a counterpoint to arguments in favor of mandating the disaggregation of income statement expenses.

Keywords: Manufacturing Costs, Income Statement, Mandatory Disclosure, Expense Disaggregation

Declaration of Interest

There are no conflicts of interest to declare.

Funder Statement

The first, second, and third authors are grateful for research grants from Japan Society for the Promotion of Science KAKENHI (23K12587, 24K16426, 24K22643).

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Iwata, Kiyonori and Iwasawa, Keita and Jinushi, Junko, The Value of Manufacturing Cost Disclosure: Lessons from Japan for Mandatory Expense Disaggregation (May 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5255697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5255697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
M Anderson , R Mashruwala , Y Wang , R Zhao
Cost uniqueness and information uncertainty
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 2226 - 2255 Posted: 2023
S Arif , N T Marshall , J H Schroeder , T L Yohn
A growing disparity in earnings disclosure mechanisms: The rise of concurrently released earnings announcements and 10-Ks
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
P G Berger , J H Choi , S Tomar
Breaking it down: economic consequences of disaggregated cost disclosures
Management Science , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 1374 - 1393 Posted: 2024
P G Berger , R Hann
The impact of SFAS No. 131 on information and monitoring
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 223 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
390
RANK
792,195
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies