Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Upside of Loss Aversion: Evidence from Financial Reporting Loss Avoidance

55 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Michael Neel

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 15, 2025

Abstract

This study provides evidence that managerial loss avoidance is one cause of the zero-earnings discontinuity and that investor loss aversion is a plausible explanation for diversity in the appearance of that discontinuity. De la Rosa and Lambertsen (2022) theoretically show that when investors are loss averse, the earnings discontinuities proposed by Guttman et al. (2006) emerge at investor reference points and are an increasing function of loss aversion. In this study, I test these propositions using a sample drawn from 49 countries in which cross-country differences in loss aversion are measurable. Net income distributions exhibit significant discontinuity at zero earnings only among countries ranked high in loss aversion. Multivariate analysis corroborates that the firm-level likelihood of loss avoidance is also an increasing function of loss aversion. Consistent with loss aversion plausibly impacting loss avoidance through a pricing effect, the market penalty for missing the zero-earnings threshold is also an increasing function of loss aversion. Additional analyses test competing theories on whether managers' loss aversion facilitates loss avoidance through stronger performance or opportunistic reporting. These results suggest that performance (opportunistic reporting) plays a more extensive role in loss avoidance in more loss-averse (less loss-averse) countries.

Keywords: Loss Aversion, Loss Avoidance, Earnings Management, Earnings Discontinuities

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Neel, Michael, The Upside of Loss Aversion: Evidence from Financial Reporting Loss Avoidance (May 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5255659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5255659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
J Abeler , A Falk , L Goette , D Huffman
Reference points and effort provision
The American Economic Review , volume 101 , p. 470 - 492 Posted: 2011
A Ahmed , M Neel , D Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve accounting quality? Preliminary evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
E Allen , C Larson , R Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
O Armantier , A Boly
Framing of incentives and effort provision
International Economic Review , volume 56 , p. 917 - 938 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
213
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies