Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Biological Assets Affect Commercial Credit Financing of Listed Agricultural Companies?

22 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Jinhui Ning

Hebei Agricultural University

Fengmin Yue

Hebei Agricultural University

Cha Cui

Hebei Agricultural University

Weimin Yuan

Hebei Agricultural University

Abstract

Against the backdrop of the current high emphasis on industrial chain security and stability, this study uses A-share listed companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen from 2007 to 2023 as research samples to empirically test the impact, channels, and cross-sectional differences of biological assets on corporate commercial credit financing. Research has shown that biological assets significantly reduce commercial credit financing. Path testing has shown that biological assets affect the acquisition of commercial credit financing by increasing the fluctuations in operating performance and reducing the quality of accounting information. The expansion analysis shows that in enterprises with low audit quality, and a low degree of asset mortgages, the adverse impact of biological assets on commercial credit financing is higher.

Keywords: Biological assets, Commercial credit financing, Fluctuations in business performance, Quality of accounting information

Suggested Citation:

Ning, Jinhui and Yue, Fengmin and Cui, Cha and Yuan, Weimin, How Do Biological Assets Affect Commercial Credit Financing of Listed Agricultural Companies?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5260298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5260298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
F Allen , Y Qian , G Tu
Entrusted loans a close look at China's shadow banking system
J. Financ. Econ , volume 133 , issue 1 , p. 18 - 41 Posted: 2019
T Chaney , D Sraer , D Thesmar
The Collateral Channel: How Real Estate Shocks Affect Corporate Investment
American Econ. Rev , volume 102 , issue 6 , p. 2381 - 2409 Posted: 2012
Y W Chu
Corporate Strategy and Commercial Credit Supply Decision making
Account. Econ. Res , volume 35 , issue 6 , p. 73 - 89 Posted: 2021
N Dass , R J Kale , V Nanda
Trade Credit, Relationship-specific Investment, and Product Market Power
Rev. Finance , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 1867 - 1923 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
115
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Agriculture, Natural Resources & Environmental Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies