Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digitalization of Tax Information and Its Impact on Mitigating Debt Default Risk --Insights from Overdue Bank Loans of Publicly Traded Firms in China

73 Pages Posted: 21 May 2025

Qingxi Meng

Xiamen University

Anting Zhang

Xiamen University

Yi Yang

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, Students

Linda H. Chen

University of Idaho

Date Written: May 04, 2025

Abstract

This study examines how two major government initiatives in China, the Golden Tax Project III (GTP III) and the Bank-Tax Interaction (BTI), jointly affect overdue bank loans. By compiling detailed data on bank loan defaults during the rollout of GTP III and the introduction of BTI, the study finds a marked decline in corporate debt default risk. This improvement is linked to greater information transparency and lower agency costs. The positive effects are most pronounced among firms with strong tax credit ratings and low media coverage, and in regions with weaker legal environments. State-owned and local banks benefit the most, while non-state-owned and non-local banks see little to no improvement. Enhanced data-sharing between tax authorities and banks also helps limit firms' participation in risky external debt guarantees. These findings highlight the advantages of advanced data-sharing systems for reducing loan default risks and bolstering financial stability. However, the study also points out the need for improved coordination to ensure that all banks-regardless of ownership or location-can benefit equally. Overall, optimizing information-sharing practices could help create a more level playing field and further reduce corporate debt risks within China's banking sector.

Keywords: digitalized tax administration, Golden Tax Project III, Bank-Tax Interaction, loan default risk

Suggested Citation:

Meng, Qingxi and Zhang, Anting and Yang, Yi and Chen, Linda H., Digitalization of Tax Information and Its Impact on Mitigating Debt Default Risk --Insights from Overdue Bank Loans of Publicly Traded Firms in China (May 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5263795 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5263795
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Wall Street Walk" and Shareholder Activism: Exit as A Form of Voice
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
G A Akerlof
The Market for" Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, Finance, and Economic Growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
263
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Banking & Insurance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies