Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Materiality Revisited -Preparer and Auditing Conceptualizations in Financial and Sustainability Contexts

AASB Research Centre Working Paper No. 25-04

38 Pages Posted: 23 May 2025

Prerana Agrawal

University of Western Australia

Lyndie Bayne

The University of Western Australia

Date Written: May 22, 2025

Abstract

This paper advances understanding of the materiality concept, application, implications and transposition from the financial reporting/audit to sustainability reporting/assurance contexts. We analyze and compare conceptualizations of materiality in contemporary standards and based on interviews with preparers and auditors. We find transposition from traditional accounting to sustainability is enabled (in both directions) by multidisciplinary sustainability reporting and assurance teams and is an ongoing process. We make theoretical and empirical contributions to prior literature by simultaneously considering materiality in the financial reporting, sustainability reporting, financial audit and sustainability assurance domains, whereas prior literature deals with one or two domains at a time. Theoretically we identify and compare key attributes of the materiality concept and provide empirical data on transposition. We offer preparers and auditors/assurers empirical evidence of the challenges and processes for implementing materiality and our findings may assist standard setters in developing materiality guidelines.

Suggested Citation:

Agrawal, Prerana and Bayne, Lyndie, Materiality Revisited -Preparer and Auditing Conceptualizations in Financial and Sustainability Contexts (May 22, 2025). AASB Research Centre Working Paper No. 25-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5265343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5265343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Auditors perspectives: The impacts of IFRS Practice Statement 2 Making Materiality Judgements
AASB 2023. Austarlian Accounting Standards Board , volume 21 Posted: 2023-10
S Abhayawansa
Swimming against the tide: back to single materiality for sustainability reporting
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 1361 - 1385 Posted: 2022
Accountability , Aa
, volume 28 Posted: 1000
J Baumüller , K Sopp
Double materiality and the shift from non-financial to European sustainability reporting: review, outlook and implications
Journal of applied accounting research , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 8 - 28 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
431
RANK
759,919
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies