Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Review of US GAAP and IFRS: Future Research Directions

22 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2025

Fred Konneh Songa Monson

Capital University of Economics and Business

Mohamed Sao Kawa

Njala University

Date Written: February 23, 2025

Abstract

The aim of this critical review is to evaluate the body of existing literature in order to identify key areas for future research on the convergence of United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Prior research has mostly concentrated on quantitative approaches, paying little attention to qualitative perspectives and local obstacles to IFRS adoption, especially in light of US GAAP convergence. A systematic review was carried out, examining twentyeight articles from 2015 to 2024. Databases such as Science Direct, Google Scholar, and Emerald Insight provided the data, which was then analyzed using the PRISMA framework. Even though there has been progress, there are still significant differences between US GAAP and IFRS, which makes cross-border reporting more challenging. Two major obstacles are the lack of professional training and the lack of preparedness for the adoption of IFRS, especially in the US. There are still many major challenges facing the convergence process. To address these issues, especially with regard to training and institutional preparedness, more qualitative research is required. Understanding the convergence of US GAAP and IFRS is very insightful for stakeholders, including investors, multinational corporations, policymakers, and standardsetting bodies, to comprehend.

Keywords: IFRS, US GAAP, Accounting Standards, Convergence, Financial Reporting, Inconsistencies

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest

Ethics Approval

Not applicable

Funder Statement

No funding was received for this review work

Suggested Citation:

Monson, Fred Konneh Songa and Kawa, Mohamed Sao, A Critical Review of US GAAP and IFRS: Future Research Directions (February 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5265545 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5265545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,478
RANK
454,090
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Resource Based Strategy & Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies