Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lighting the Green: The Role of Green Bond Sections in the European Market 

TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 191

70 Pages Posted: 23 May 2025 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025

Pia Stoczek

Paderborn University

Date Written: May 23, 2025

Abstract

This study analyzes the role of green bond sections (GBS) in the European corporate bond market, focusing on whether they can assist investors in addressing greenwashing challenges. The listing on a GBS is tied to requirements relating to textual disclosures and external review mechanisms. Arguably, the listing signals that the green bond adheres to those requirements whose compliance is monitored by the trading venue operator, thereby reducing information asymmetries. Thus, this study investigates the relationship between listing a corporate green bond on a GBS and information asymmetries proxied with the bid-ask spread. Findings show that the listing on GBS is, on average, associated with reduced information asymmetries. Further, the association is more pronounced for bonds that are smaller, unrated or high yield, as well as bonds on GBS with higher listing requirements. Further, the results indicate that GBS listings may signal credibility independently of the disclosure quality. Overall, the paper provides empirical evidence that trading venue-level mechanisms may serve as a useful complement to existing disclosure practices in the green bond market.

Keywords: Green bonds, Liquidity, Green bond sections, Disclosure, Climate finance

JEL Classification: G12, G15, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Stoczek, Pia, Lighting the Green: The Role of Green Bond Sections in the European Market  (May 23, 2025).
TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency Working Paper Series No. 191
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5266107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5266107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
G J Alexander , A K Edwards , M G Ferri
The determinants of trading volume of high-yield corporate bonds
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 204 Posted: 2000
K Amira , M L Muzere
Competition among stock exchanges for equity
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 35 , issue 9 , p. 2355 - 2373 Posted: 2011
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
F Berg , J F Kölbel , R Rigobon
Aggregate confusion: The divergence of ESG ratings
Review of Finance , volume 26 , issue 6 , p. 1315 - 1344 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
337
RANK
753,736
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies