Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Treatment of Repairs, Spares, Turnarounds, Leasehold Improvements and Pre-Operating Expenses under IFRS: A Quick Reference Analysis

No, not previously. But it was written in 2016 and revised in 2025. This is for reference only.

8 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2025

Syed Safwan Kamal

Independent

Date Written: May 25, 2025

Abstract

This paper provides a practical reference for interpreting the accounting treatment of repairs, spare parts, turnaround expenditures, leasehold improvements and pre-operating expenses under International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"), specifically International Accounting Standards ("IAS") IAS 16. It explores the classification, recognition, and measurement of various types of maintenance and component replacement costs encountered in industrial and capitalintensive environments. The objective is to help accounting & financial professionals distinguish between capital and operating expenditures and apply consistent policies in line with IFRS. The paper focuses on spare parts, minor items, componentization, recognition criteria, turnaround activities, and related implications for financial reporting.

Keywords: IAS 16, Capital Spares, IFRS, Turnaround Costs, Repairs, Lease Hold Improvements, CAPEX vs OPEX

Declaration of Interest

The research is based The author declares no personal or financial relationships with any individuals or organizations that could be perceived to have influenced this study. This research is based solely on publicly available, official IFRS sources and standards, and reflects independent analysis and interpretation.

Ethics Approval

This study did not involve any human participants or case studies and therefore did not require ethics approval or participant consent. The research is based solely on publicly available financial reporting standards and technical analysis.

Funder Statement

This research was fully self-funded by the author. No external funding was received.

JEL Classification: M41, M48, L65

Suggested Citation:

Kamal, Syed Safwan, Accounting Treatment of Repairs, Spares, Turnarounds, Leasehold Improvements and Pre-Operating Expenses under IFRS: A Quick Reference Analysis (May 25, 2025). No, not previously. But it was written in 2016 and revised in 2025. This is for reference only., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5268094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5268094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Source
References: IAS 16 -Property, Plant and Equipment International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)
Issued IFRS Standards (Part A) IFRS Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (2018) International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Initial measurement
Ias Deloitte , Plus
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment Deloitte Global IFRS Resources
CPDbox -IFRSbox.com: Capitalisation under IAS , volume 16
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
996
RANK
799,009
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies