Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Clan Culture Mitigate Earnings Management? Evidence from China

31 Pages Posted: 27 May 2025

Xu Xixiong

Chongqing University

Linchun Wu

Chongqing University

Cuiliang Lin

Shantou University

Weiyu Gan

Southwest University of Political Science and Law

Abstract

We examine the effect of clan culture on corporate earnings management and delineates its underlying mechanism from an institutional theory perspective. Our findings reveal that firms with stronger clan culture have a lower level of earnings management. The transmission mechanism tests demonstrate that clan culture can reduce the earnings management through enhancing ethical constraints, reinforcing resource sharing, and fostering long-term orientation. Furthermore, the negative influence of clan culture on earnings management is more significant in firms with worse audit quality and fewer foreign cultural shocks. This study not only extends our understanding of the determinants of earnings management from the perspective of informal institutions but also enriches the research on the economic consequences of clan culture.

Keywords: clan culture, accrual earnings management, real earnings management, informal institution, Chinese family firms

Suggested Citation:

Xixiong, Xu and Wu, Linchun and Lin, Cuiliang and Gan, Weiyu, Does Clan Culture Mitigate Earnings Management? Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5269849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5269849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
B K Adhikari , A Agrawal
Does local religiosity matter for bank risk-taking?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 38 , p. 272 - 293 Posted: 2016
N Alam , J L Ramachandran , A H Nahomy
The impact of corporate governance and agency effect on earnings management -A test of the dual banking system
Research in International Business and Finance Posted: 2020
A Alsaadi
Can Inclusion in Religious Index Membership Mitigate Earnings Management?
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 169 , issue 2 , p. 333 - 354 Posted: 2021
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
234
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Disclosure, Internal Control & Risk-Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies