Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud diamond and fraudulent financial reporting in the Nigerian banking industry

7 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025

Friday Ojeaburu

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education; University of Port Harcourt

Kingsley G. Kalagbor

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education

Cletus O. Akenbor

Federal University Otuoke

Date Written: May 25, 2025

Abstract

The study investigated the relationship between fraud diamonds and fraudulent financial reporting (FFR) in the Nigerian banking industry. The study's three specific objectives are to determine the relationship between financial target and FFR, the relationship between external pressure and FFR, and the relationship between opportunity and FFR. The dimensions of fraud diamond are the financial target, external pressure, opportunity, rationalisation, and capability, with institutional ownership as a control variable. At the same time, the measures for FFR are Real earnings Management (REM) and Accrual Earning Management (AEM). The study used an ex-post facto research design, and the population consists of thirteen (13) Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) listed on the Nigeria Stock Exchange from 2018 to 2019. Multiple regression analysis and descriptive statistics were adopted to analyse the secondary data collected using E-VIEW version 12. The findings show from the empirical evidence that external pressure is significantly related to REM and AEM, but only financial target is significantly related to REM. External pressure, rationalisation, opportunity capability, and institutional ownership are insignificantly associated with REM and AEM, but only financial targets are insignificantly related to AEM. The study implies that it will help management detect and prevent fraud in the Nigerian banking industry. Therefore, the study recommends that management give their staff realistic financial targets that are achievable to reduce excessive pressure. The study concludes that the quest for a high level of financial performance management leads to pressure and has been proven to be a motivating force that has caused individuals to commit fraud in the bank.

Keywords: Fraud diamond, fraudulent financial reporting, fraud triangle, Accrual Earning Management, Real earnings Management, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Ojeaburu, Friday and G. Kalagbor, Kingsley and O. Akenbor, Cletus, Fraud diamond and fraudulent financial reporting in the Nigerian banking industry (May 25, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5270346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5270346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
403
RANK
889,370
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies