Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Market Dynamics: Exploring the Influence of State Power on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Practices in China

25 Pages Posted: 27 May 2025

Jimmy Xun Gong

The University of Sydney

Eagle Zhang

The University of Sydney

Yiru Yang

Guangzhou College of Commerce

Abstract

This research examines the underlying socio-political dynamics of ESG practices among Chinese small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Through in-depth interviews, this study reveals that socio-economic issues, such as tax contributions and employment security, dominate in the actual ESG practices, with less attention given to environmental concerns. The underlying motivations and actual implementation process suggest that these practices are largely shaped by government agendas rather than environmental priorities. Unlike Western contexts where the state’s role in ESG development appears minimised and market-oriented, the Chinese experience showcases a distinct trend wherein ESG practices become extensions of state policy rather than autonomous corporate initiatives. This research reinforces the need to consider the entangled socio-political structures that influence ESG practices within different geopolitical contexts, prompting a re-evaluation of how social and environmental accountability could be conceptualised and enacted to reflect diverse political agendas and power dynamics.

Keywords: Social and environmental accounting, critical accounting, political governance, ESG

Suggested Citation:

Gong, Jimmy Xun and Zhang, Eagle and Zhang, Eagle and Yang, Yiru, Beyond Market Dynamics: Exploring the Influence of State Power on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Practices in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5270174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5270174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Acftu
Consitution of the Chinese Trade Unions Posted: 2025-04-30
C A Adams , S Abhayawansa
Connecting the COVID-19 pandemic, environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing and calls for 'harmonisation'of sustainability reporting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 82 Posted: 2022
C A Alawattage , C A Jayathileka , R B Hitibandara
Moral economy, performative materialism, and political rhetorics of sustainability accounting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 95 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2023
J Andrew , M Baker
Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting: The Last 40 Years and a Path to Sharing Future Insights
ABACUS , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 65 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
278
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies