Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Climate Change and Banks’ Operational Risk Exposure in Developing Countries. The Role of Auditors’ Reputation

28 Pages Posted: 28 May 2025

Simon Kamau

University of Johannesburg

Beatrice Simo-Kengne

University of Johannesburg - Department of Economics

Abstract

Highlights ▪ The study examines the effect of climate change on banks operational risk exposure and explores the possible moderating effect of auditors reputation. ▪ Data was collected from a sample comprising 2,348 commercial banks across 133 developing countries, covering the years 2004 to 2022. ▪ Analytical methods employed include fixed effects and GMM estimator to addresses endogeneity concerns. ▪ The findings indicate that climate change significantly increases banks' exposure to operational risks; however, engaging the Big 4 audit firms can mitigate these adverse effects.

Keywords: Climate change, Auditor reputation, banks' operational risk exposure, Moderating effect, developing countries

Suggested Citation:

Kamau, Simon and Simo-Kengne, Beatrice, Climate Change and Banks’ Operational Risk Exposure in Developing Countries. The Role of Auditors’ Reputation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5272273 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5272273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
D Zhang , Y Wu , Q Ji , K Guo , B Lucey
Climate impacts on the loan quality of Chinese regional commercial banks
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 140 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2024-02-01
C Aslan , E Bulut , O Cepni , M H Yilmaz
Does climate change affect bank lending behavior?
Economics Letters , volume 220 , p. 1 - 5 Posted: 2022-11
D A Adu , M Z Abedin , V Y Saa , F Boateng
Bank sustainability, climate change initiatives and financial performance: The role of corporate governance
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 95 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2024
Bcbs
International convergence of capital measurement and capital standards Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
186
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies