Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Report Comment Letters on Bond Pricing: Evidence from China

12 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2025

cc zhang

Shandong University of Finance and Economics

Haodong Bian

Shandong University of Finance and Economics

Thomas Walker

Concordia University, Montreal - Department of Finance

Sergey Barabanov

University of St. Thomas

Abstract

We examine the impact of financial report comment letters on corporate bond pricing. Using 2015-2023 bond trading data for Chinese listed companies, we find that the receipt of comment letters significantly adversely affects bond pricing. The effect is more pronounced in firms with greater information transparency and more pronounced shareholder-creditor conflicts, where bondholders may be more sensitive to disclosure-related signals. Our findings highlight the role of comment letters as an important regulatory tool influencing debt markets in developing economies.

Keywords: Comment letter, Bond pricing, Shareholder-creditor conflict, Information transparency

Suggested Citation:

zhang, cc and Bian, Haodong and Walker, Thomas and Barabanov, Sergey, The Impact of Financial Report Comment Letters on Bond Pricing: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5279287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5279287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
J C Adams , S A Mansi
CEO turnover and bondholder wealth
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 33 , issue 3 , p. 522 - 533 Posted: 2009
S Amiri-Moghadam , S Javadi , M Rastad
The impact of stronger shareholder control on bondholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 56 , p. 1259 - 1295 Posted: 2021
Z Bozanic , J R Dietrich , B A Johnson
SEC comment letters and firm disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 36 , issue 5 , p. 337 - 357 Posted: 2017
F Cao , X Zhang , J Liu
Comment letter regulation and stock price synchronicity: Evidence from China
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 569 - 593 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
210
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies