Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practical Expedients - a Valid Tool in IFRS Standard-Setting?

74 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025 Last revised: 13 Jul 2025

Niclas Hellman

Stockholm School of Economics

Heidi Hiltunen

Stockholm School of Economics

Milda Tylaite

Stockholm School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Johanna Lindegren

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: November 21, 2024

Abstract

The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has introduced simplified accounting choices, so-called "practical expedients", in International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These practical expedients allow preparers to deviate from IFRS principles when accounting for economic events. We document the occurrence of such accounting simplifications in the IFRS Accounting Standards, as well as the extent of application and disclosure of practical expedients by large listed European firms during 2018-22. We observe firms to apply and disclose practical expedients in a relatively stable manner, however, there is significant variation across and within countries and industries. We do not observe any systematic evidence of information loss associated with the application of practical expedients, though we note that some firms' choices to explicitly disclose the non-application of the practical expedients is associated with lower value relevance of the reported net income. Our interview evidence indicates that practical expedients facilitate the IFRS standard-setting process in that preparers can be offered simplifications that reduce their costs, however, there are also tensions concerning whether user benefits are reduced (impaired comparability, lower understandability, increased reliance on materiality considerations). There may also be concerns that although practical expedients may so far have had favourable cost-benefit tradeoffs, a more widespread application of practical-expedient rules might challenge the primacy of principles-based standard-setting.

Keywords: IFRS, practical expedients, accounting simplifications, accounting choice, materiality

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hellman, Niclas and Hiltunen, Heidi and Tylaite, Milda and Lindegren, Johanna, Practical Expedients - a Valid Tool in IFRS Standard-Setting? (November 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5286393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5286393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M H References Aasen , N Hellman , T Hjelström , J T White
A Note on the Determinants of IFRS Policy Choice When Accounting for Non-controlling Interest and Goodwill. Abacus , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2024
Aasb , R Ball
Transition Relief and Ongoing Practical Expedients in IFRS 16 Leases
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors , volume 17 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
S Balsam , I M Haw , S B Lilien
Mandated Accounting Changes and Managerial Discretion
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 29 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
250
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies