Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do M&Amp;As Incentivize Acquirers to Engage in Earnings Management? Evidence from an Emerging Economy

Posted: 23 Jun 2025

Diksha Lalwani

Department of Management Studies, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi

Sonali Jain

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi

Date Written: June 10, 2025

Abstract

Purpose – The study investigates whether acquiring firmsfrom India indulge in earnings management (EM) up to three years prior to M&A deal announcements. The study also analyzes the EM behavior of acquiring firms compared to their matched non-acquiring firms. Design/methodology/approach – The study considers 1,024 completed M&A deals by Indian acquiring firms, announced between January 2000 and March 2023. The study measures EM using both accrual earnings management (AEM) and real earnings management (REM). The matched non-acquiring firms are obtained by applying the propensity score matching (PSM) technique. Findings – The study finds evidence of both AEM and REM by firmsin the financial year leading up to the deal announcement. Further, acquiring firms demonstrate a preference for AEM over REM compared to matched non-acquiring firms. Overall, the findingsindicate that M&As are a significantforce driving firmsto manipulate earnings as they approach deal announcements. The analyses also show that EM is more prevalent among firms participating in intra-industry deals and cross-border deals. The results remain consistent with alternative proxies for AEM and REM. Additionally, the study finds that while acquirers experience positive short-term market returns, these gains reverse in the long run. Practical implications – The findings have implicationsfor users offinancial information in assessing financial risks and for regulators in making stringent policies that ensure transparency. Originality/value – The study underscoresthe evolving strategic behavior of firmsfrom a significant emerging economy, potentially influenced by hubristic tendencies and managerial myopia.

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M48, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lalwani, Diksha and Jain, Sonali, Do M&Amp;As Incentivize Acquirers to Engage in Earnings Management? Evidence from an Emerging Economy (June 10, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5289721
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
129
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies