Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Data Assets on the Rationality of Economic Capital Allocation in Commercial Banks:An Analysis from the Perspective of Loan Loss Provision Manipulation

33 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2025

Hu Wang

University of Shanghai for Science and Technology

Liangrong Song

University of Shanghai for Science and Technology - Business School

Qingying Zong

Lanzhou University of Finance and Economics

Abstract

Abstract: Data assets, as a new, rising type of productive asset in the banking industry, have both revolutionized traditional production modes and profoundly reshaped the competitive landscape of the banking sector. Based on the empirical data of 64 banks, between 2016 and 2023, this article investigates the relationship between banks' data asset levels and credit risk economic capital allocation. The results show increased data asset levels significantly reduce banks’ credit risk and simultaneously increase the extent of earnings management, thereby affecting the rationality of economic capital allocation. A mechanism analysis reveals that improvements in data asset levels are accompanied by increased uncertainty. That uncertainty then prompts bank management to adopt more conservative provisioning strategies to enhance their risk resilience. Further heterogeneity analyses reveal that the risk-mitigating effects of data assets and their impact on earnings management are moderated by bank ownership type (e.g., state-owned vs. non-state-owned), the strength of earnings incentives, and whether data assets are recognized on the balance sheet. Specifically, the risk-mitigating effects are more pronounced in the following: state-owned banks, banks with strong earnings incentives, and banks that have included data asset recognition on their balance sheets. The findings of this study enrich the theoretical understanding of banking data assets and provide important theoretical implications for data governance and provisioning regulation in banks.

Keywords: Keywords: data assets, credit risk, earnings management, capital allocation

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Hu and Song, Liangrong and Zong, Qingying, Impact of Data Assets on the Rationality of Economic Capital Allocation in Commercial Banks:An Analysis from the Perspective of Loan Loss Provision Manipulation. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5290602 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5290602
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
U Awan , S Shamim , Z Khan , N U Zia , S M Shariq , M N Khan
Big data analytics capability and decision-making: The role of data-driven insight on circular economy performance
Technological Forecasting and Social Change , volume 168 Posted: 2021
A Beatty , S Liao
Do delays in expected loss recognition affect banks' willingness to lend?
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2011
T Berg , V Burg , A Gombović , M Puri
On the rise of fintechs: Credit scoring using digital footprints
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 33 , issue 7 , p. 2845 - 2897 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12
ABSTRACT VIEWS
143
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies