Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Tone and Corporate Information Asymmetry in Times of Pandemic Crisis

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 2025[10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2025.100708]

58 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2025

Yang Wang

University of Dundee

Xin Chen

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST)

Yifei Zhang

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: April 01, 2023

Abstract

In this paper, we study the impact of management tones on corporate information asymmetry at earnings communication conferences during China's COVID-19 outbreak. We show that firms' information asymmetry was reduced when management used more positive tones. This positive effect was more pronounced for firms in those regions more affected by the pandemic, when participants raised more questions, or when the Chief Executive Officers attended at these conferences. We argue that an internet search is a channel through which management tones reduce information asymmetry. Our paper sheds light on the importance of management tones during a crisis and highlights the positive roles that top management engagement and conference participants' activism play in the information environment.

Keywords: COVID-19, Information asymmetry, Management tones, Earnings communication conferences, Crisis

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Yang and Chen, Xin and Zhang, Yifei, Management Tone and Corporate Information Asymmetry in Times of Pandemic Crisis (April 01, 2023). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 2025[10.1016/j.intaccaudtax.2025.100708], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5294293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , K A Wong , A Wu
The information environment of China's A and B shares: Can we make sense of numbers?
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 467 - 489 Posted: 1999
V Agarwal , R J Taffler , X Bellotti , E A Nash
Investor relations, information asymmetry and market value
Accounting and Business Research , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2016
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
D Amiram , E Owens , O Rozenbaum
Do information releases increase or decrease information asymmetry? New evidence from analyst forecast announcements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , p. 121 - 138 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
11
ABSTRACT VIEWS
184
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies