Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Persistence of Asset Impairment Losses and its Predictability of Future Operating Performance

34 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2025

Hyungjin Cho

Korea Accounting Institute; Korea Accounting Research Institute

Haewon Moon

Korea Accounting Institute

Batjargal Bolor-Erdene

Seoul National University

Date Written: July 01, 2025

Abstract

Using financial data from Korean listed firms from 2011 to 2023, this study investigates the persistence and predictive value of impairment losses on tangible and intangible assets. The analysis shows that impairment losses are not isolated or nonrecurring events but occur frequently and persist over time. Firms that recognize impairment losses in a given year are significantly more likely to do so in subsequent years. Furthermore, impairment losses are negatively associated with future operating income and operating profit margins, while exhibiting no significant association with future revenue. These findings suggest that impairment losses provide valuable information about a firm's future operating performance. The results lend support to the recent revision to IFRS 18, which includes certain items-such as impairment losses-in the calculation of operating profit. This study offers robust empirical evidence relevant to standard setters, investors, and corporate managers in assessing the financial implications of impairment recognition.

Keywords: Impairment losses, Operating profit, IFRS 18, Persistence, Predictive value

Declaration of Interest

The views expressed in this paper are those of the authors. Official positions of the Korea Accounting Institute and Korea Accounting Standard Board are reached only after extensive due process and deliberations.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Hyungjin and Moon, Haewon and Bolor-Erdene, Batjargal, Persistence of Asset Impairment Losses and its Predictability of Future Operating Performance (July 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5332429 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5332429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
J H Baek , J S Choi
The effect of K-IFRS adoption on goodwill impairment timeliness
Management & Information Systems Review , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 68 Posted: 2016
M Baugh , C W Hong , P Lamoreaux , M Rykaczewski
What makes the impairment rules Under IFRS better than U.S. GAAP? Insights from quarterly impairment and reversal data Posted: 2024
W Cready , T J Lopez , C A Sisneros
The persistence and market valuation of recurring nonrecurring items
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 5 , p. 1577 - 1615 Posted: 2010
Esma
Report on the use of alternative performance measures and on the compliance with ESMA's APM guidelines Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
368
RANK
897,570
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies