Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Dishonesty and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from China

28 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2025

Run Fan

Yangzhou University

Yani Sun

Hainan University

Yujie Zhao

Tianjin University of Finance and Economics

Meiwen Bo

Yangzhou University

Jiayi Zhao

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The informal institution of social trust has a crucial impact on firm’s economic activities. Based on agency theory and social learning theory, this study investigates the impact of social dishonesty on firm’s tax avoidance. We find that firms in areas with a high level of social dishonesty are more inclined to implement tax avoidance. The mechanisms analysis demonstrates that social dishonesty exacerbates firms’ financial constraints and agency conflicts, thus prompting firms to increase their tax avoidance. Heterogeneity analysis finds that the impact of social dishonesty on corporate tax avoidance is more pronounced in firms with weaker tax administration intensity, lower management shareholding ratios, and lower levels of digital financial development. By focusing on the perspective of social dishonesty, this paper examines the influence of informal institutions on corporate tax avoidance, thereby supplementing and expanding the literature in institutional economics and corporate tax avoidance. The study also provides important reference for enhancing corporate tax compliance.

Keywords: Social dishonesty, corporate tax avoidance, financial constraints, Agency Costs

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Run and Sun, Yani and Zhao, Yujie and Bo, Meiwen and Zhao, Jiayi, Social Dishonesty and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5349280 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5349280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
K K F Law , L F Mills
Taxes and financial constraints: Evidence from linguistic cues
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 777 - 819 Posted: 2015
A Edwards , C Schwab , T Shevlin
Financial constraints and cash tax savings
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 3 , p. 859 - 881 Posted: 2016
M A Desai , D Dharmapala
Corporate tax avoidance and high -powered incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 145 - 179 Posted: 2006
K H Chan , P L L Mo , T Y Tang
Tax avoidance and tunneling: Empirical analysis from an agency perspective
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 49 - 66 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
123
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies