Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Promises and Pitfalls of Mandated Ownership Transparency: A Discussion of Amberger, Wilde, and Wu (2025)

Forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting and Economics

27 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Thomas Rauter

University of Zurich - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: July 14, 2025

Abstract

Amberger, Wilde, and Wu (2025, AWW) examine the impact of EU beneficial ownership transparency (BOT) regulation on cross-border investment. They find that BOT is associated with reductions in investments from non-EU financial havens into the EU and that BOT unintentionally discourages legitimate investments without deterring illicit actors. My discussion evaluates AWW's evidence, positions the paper within the existing literature, and discusses its contributions. I particularly focus on challenges in measuring illicit activities and the impact of voluntary FDI data reporting by EU countries. I also assess how privacy concerns and recent legal decisions have shaped the evolving landscape of beneficial ownership mandates and how they may affect the public scrutiny mechanism going forward. To contextualize the paper's findings, I provide new survey evidence on private firms' disclosure practices and interview-based insights into the practical use of BOT registries. I conclude with suggestions for future research.

Keywords: Ownership Transparency, Financial Havens, Cross-Border Investment, Privacy

Suggested Citation:

Rauter, Thomas, The Promises and Pitfalls of Mandated Ownership Transparency: A Discussion of Amberger, Wilde, and Wu (2025) (July 14, 2025).

Forthcoming in the Journal of Accounting and Economics

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5350310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5350310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
African Beneficial Ownership Transparency Network Posted: 2025-03
A Allen , M F Lewis-Western , K Valentine
The Innovation and Reporting Consequences of Financial Regulation for Young Life-Cycle Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 95 Posted: 2022
H Amberger , J Wilde , Y Wu
Cross-border Investment, Deterrence, and Compliance Effects of Ownership Transparency Posted: 2025
M Bak , M Jenkins
Illicit Financial Flows and Economic Growth
Transparency International Posted: 2025-03
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
218
RANK
736,113
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies