Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on Impact of Dividend Policy on Share Price of Firms Listed in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)

61 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025 Last revised: 25 Jul 2025

Atezaz Ul Hassan

Independent

Date Written: September 10, 2023

Abstract

This dissertation aims to unravel the correlation between dividend policies and share prices of firms listed on the stock exchanges of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. For this reason, a sample of 155 companies over a 14-year research period was reviewed in this dissertation. A combination of descriptive statistics, correlation analysis, and linear regression was employed to decode the data. Preliminary results provided by descriptive statistics offered an insight into dividend yields, dividends per share, and share prices. The findings of correlation analysis revealed significant correlation between these variables. The regression analysis further improved our understanding of the influence that dividend policy stand-in has on predicting share prices. The findings of this research suggest presence of significant relationship between dividend policies and share prices of firms under review. This research contributes to the existing body of literature and hopes that the findings of this research will prove valuable for investors, financial analyst and policymakers alike.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Share Prices, Gulf Cooperation Council, Dividends per Share, Emerging Markets, Linear Regression, Correlation Analysis, Regression Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Ul Hassan, Atezaz, A Study on Impact of Dividend Policy on Share Price of Firms Listed in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (September 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5351714 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5351714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
T O Agbatogun , S O Kajola , O A Akinbola
Influence of dividend policy on stock price volatility of non-financial firms listed Nigerian stock exchange
Izvestiya Journal of Varna University of Economics , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 49 Posted: 2019
H Ahmed
The Effect of Dividend Policy on Share Price: An Evaluative Study
The Cost and Management , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 54 - 58 Posted: 2019
M A Ahmad , A M S Alrjoub , H M Alrabba
The Effect of Dividend Policy on Stock Price Volatility: Empirical Evidence from Amman Stock Exchange
Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2018
M G Ajao , F E Robinson
Dividend Policy Determinants and Stock Price Volatility in Selected African Stock Markets
International Journal of Finance Research , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 48 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
90
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies