Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Crisis to Stability: How CSR Shielded Firms during Covid-19 Pandemic 

International Review of Economics and Finance

57 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2025

Adam G. Arian

Australian Catholic University; University of Southern Queensland

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Lotfi Karoui

Independent

Syed Shams

University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: July 24, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between the COVID-19 pandemic and firm risk, as well as the moderating role of corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance in this relationship. Using 22,451 firm-year observations from 62 countries between 2018 and 2021, the study finds a marked increase in firm risk due to the economic disruptions caused by the pandemic. However, firms with strong CSR performance exhibit greater resilience, highlighting CSR's critical role in crisis management and risk mitigation beyond ethical compliance. Additional analysis shows that the effects of the pandemic and the moderating role of CSR performance vary by country-level business culture and economic environment. The findings highlight the importance of integrating CSR into corporate strategy to enhance resilience and manage risk during crises. We also show that stakeholder management serves as an underlying mechanism linking the interaction between CSR performance and the COVID-19 pandemic to firm risk. The study also advocates for policy support to strengthen CSR initiatives, offering actionable insights for managers and policymakers in fostering corporate preparedness for future challenges.

Keywords: Risk Management, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), COVID-19 Pandemic, Stakeholder Engagement

Suggested Citation:

Arian, Adam G. and Bose, Sudipta and Karoui, Lotfi and Shams, Syed, From Crisis to Stability: How CSR Shielded Firms during Covid-19 Pandemic  (July 24, 2025). International Review of Economics and Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5364228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5364228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility: a comparative analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
H O Aifuwa , M Saidu , S A Aifuwa
Coronavirus pandemic outbreak and firms performance in Nigeria
Management and Human Resources Research Journal Posted: 2020
Al Rabab'a , E , .-F Rashid , A Shams , S Bose , S
Corporate carbon performance and firm risk: Evidence from Asia-Pacific countries
Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics Posted: 2024
R Albuquerque , Y Koskinen , S Yang , C Zhang
Resiliency of environmental and social stocks: An analysis of the exogenous COVID-19 market crash
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 621 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
127
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Financial Crises eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies