Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sanctions Paradox: Do U.S. Export Restrictions Hurt Domestic Innovation?

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7328-25

75 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2025

Hao Gao

Tsinghua University - PBC School of Finance

Nemit Shroff

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Pengdong Zhang

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Date Written: July 30, 2025

Abstract

Yes. We find that U.S. export restrictions reduce innovation incentives among U.S. firms that export to sanctioned entities. These restrictions prompt targeted foreign firms to accelerate their own innovation efforts, ostensibly with increased support from their governments-including weakening enforcement of U.S. intellectual property rights (IPR). Weaker IPR diminishes the ability of U.S. suppliers to appropriate the returns from their R&D investments, leading them to reduce R&D spending by 13% and R&D-related hiring by 9%. Post-sanctions, suppliers to sanctioned firms also shift their IP protection strategy: patent filings decline by 10%, while mentions of trade secrets in regulatory filings rise by 47%. These effects are stronger when sanctioned entities are likely to reverse-engineer their suppliers' technology and weaker when domestic competition necessitates U.S. firms to innovate. The impact is most pronounced in patent-intensive industries and for suppliers who hold patents in sanctioned countries. Our findings suggest that export controls may unintentionally fuel foreign innovation and IP appropriation, prompting U.S. firms to scale back innovation and favor secrecy over patenting.

Suggested Citation:

Gao, Hao and Shroff, Nemit and Zhang, Pengdong, Sanctions Paradox: Do U.S. Export Restrictions Hurt Domestic Innovation? (July 30, 2025). MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7328-25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5373282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5373282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
U U Acikalin , T Caskurlu , G Hoberg , G M Phillips
Intellectual property protection lost and competition: An examination using machine learning
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2024
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
D P Ahn , R D Ludema
The sword and the shield: The economics of targeted sanctions
European Economic Review , volume 130 Posted: 2020
G C Allen
China is striking back in the tech war with the US
Time Posted: 1920
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
858
RANK
318,636
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies