Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lost in Lines: Bank Competition and Annual Report Readability

35 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2025

Yue Li

University of Macau

Ming Liu

University of Macau - Faculty of Business Administration

pu wenyan

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law

Hao Wu

University of Macau

Abstract

This paper explores how bank competition, indicated by the geographic density of bank branches surrounding the focal firm, influences the readability of firms’ annual reports. We conduct the research with the sample of 41,295 firm-year observations of Chinese listed non-financial firms with periods ranging from 2007 to 2022. We find that increased bank competition can significantly prompt firms to produce their annual reports in less readable formats. Moreover, the causal relationship is more pronounced when firms bear increased negative operational news or are managed by managers with higher manipulation incentives. However, the effect of banking competition on reducing annual report readability becomes less apparent under increased scrutiny. Additionally, our findings remain consistent with a series of endogeneity and robustness tests.

Keywords: Bank competition, Bank geographic distribution, Information asymmetry, Annual report readability

Suggested Citation:

Li, Yue and Liu, Ming and wenyan, pu and Wu, Hao, Lost in Lines: Bank Competition and Annual Report Readability. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5380754 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5380754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
V Beattie , B Mcinnes , S Fearnley
A methodology for analysing and evaluating narratives in annual reports: A comprehensive descriptive profile and metrics for disclosure quality attributes
Accounting Forum , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 205 - 236 Posted: 2004
M Bertrand , A Schoar , D Thesmar
Banking Deregulation and Industry Structure: Evidence from the French Banking Reforms of 1985
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 2 , p. 597 - 628 Posted: 2007
S T Bharath , T Shumway
Forecasting Default with the Merton Distance to Default Model
Review of Financial Studies , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 1339 - 1369 Posted: 2008
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How does financial reporting quality relate to investment efficiency
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2-3 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
97
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies