Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recurring Non-Operating Events: Examination of the Determinants of Frequent Impairments

48 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2025 Last revised: 11 Aug 2025

Junjun Liu

University of Alabama in Huntsville

Maria Rykaczewski

Arizona State University

Abstract

This study documents and examines the within-year frequency of impairments, a topic that has not been addressed in prior literature. Using quarterly financial statements, we show that considerable variations exist in the frequency of property, plant, and equipment impairments across years, countries, and industries. Each year over the past decade, more than 30% of firms that report an impairment recognize the impairment loss across multiple quarters. Despite this prevalence, little is known about what drives the more frequent reporting of impairments. To address this gap, we conduct an ordered logit regression analysis to examine potential determinants of impairment frequency. Our findings suggest that high impairment frequency is primarily explained by disclosure theory, with limited evidence supporting impression management theory. Low impairment frequency, on the other hand, is mainly explained by real options theory, with some support for agency theory. Overall, we show that frequent impairments are more likely to be motivated by the incentives for transparent reporting rather than by managerial opportunism. This study is the first one to document the patterns and determinants of within-year impairment frequency.



*Preliminary results. Please do not cite without contacting the authors. 

Keywords: PP&E impairments, within-year impairment frequency, real options theory, disclosure theory, impression management theory

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Junjun and Rykaczewski, Maria, Recurring Non-Operating Events: Examination of the Determinants of Frequent Impairments. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5385217 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5385217
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Salman Arif , Nathan Marshall , Teri Lombardi Yohn
Understanding the Relation between Accruals and Volatility: A Real Options-Based Investment Approach
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 86 Posted: 2016
Matthew Baugh , Chang Woo , ( Mark , ) Hong , Phillip Lamoreaux , Maria Rykaczewski
2025 Value Relevance of Impairment Losses and Reversals: Novel Insights from Quarterly Data Posted: 2025-06
Jean Bédard , Lucie Courteau
Benefits and Costs of Auditor's Assurance: Evidence from the Review of Quarterly Financial Statements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 308 - 335 Posted: 2015
Erik S Boyle , F Melissa , Timothy A Lewis-Western , Seidel
Do Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements Reflect Similar Financial Statement Error in the Post-SOX Era?
Journal of Financial Reporting , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
97
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies