Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Education in Russia and the USA: A Comparative Study

Andreas School of Business Working Paper

30 Pages Posted: 6 May 2004

Galina Preobragenskaya

Abu Dhabi University - Department of Accounting

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 2004

Abstract

This study compares and contrasts the accounting education provided by Russian universities with that given at American universities. Two typical universities were chosen for comparison purposes, one Russian and one American. Their curricula were compared and evaluated. Accounting educators at five Russian universities were also interviewed. The information gathered during the course of those interviews is also discussed. It was found that Russian accounting students spend a significantly longer amount of time studying both accounting and other subjects during the course of their university attendance. Part of the reason is because the average Russian accounting program is five years, compared to four years in the American system. However, Russian accounting students also spend more time at their studies each year.

Keywords: accounting education, Russia, CIS, transition economy

JEL Classification: A22, I20, P20, M40

Suggested Citation:

Preobragenskaya, Galina G. and McGee, Robert W., Accounting Education in Russia and the USA: A Comparative Study (May 2004). Andreas School of Business Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=538562 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.538562
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Anonymous
Accountants in Russia Gain International Skills. Financial Management Posted: 2001-04
Anonymous
Tanya Bondarenko Seeks American Education. Baylor Business Review , volume 12 , issue 1 Posted: 1994
Crossref
C E Chastain
Soviet Accounting Lags Behind the Needs of Enterprise Managers
Management International Review , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 12 - 18 Posted: 1982
G A Cheney
Western Accounting Arrives in Eastern Europe
Journal of Accountancy , p. 40 - 43 Posted: 1990-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,053
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,049
RANK
48,692
6 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance in Transition and Developing Economies: A Case Study of Brazil

By Robert W. Mcgee

Insider Trading Regulation in Transition Economies

By Robert W. Mcgee

Timeliness of Financial Reporting in the Russian Energy Sector

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies