Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seeking Reinforcements: Well-Connected Directors and Audit Quality

13 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Deepali Kalia

Goa Institute of Management

Debarati Basu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study uses hand-collected data of firms listed on the Indian National Stock Exchange from 2013 – 2021 to investigate the relationship between the firm’s internal governance mechanism (director's connectedness) and external governance mechanisms and finds evidence that firms with better-connected directors on their boards have a higher audit quality. These results support the social capital theory which suggests that individual’s connections are valuable and capture their reputation, and well-connected individuals will take measures to safeguard it. Our results remain consistent after using multiple measures of audit quality and after controlling for endogeneity.

Keywords: Director centrality, audit quality, Director connectedness, Emerging Markets

Suggested Citation:

Kalia, Deepali and Basu, Debarati, Seeking Reinforcements: Well-Connected Directors and Audit Quality. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5387931 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5387931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
S Aktamov , Y Zhao
Impact of network centrality positions on innovation performance of the firm: Evidence from China automobile industry
Business Management and Strategy , volume 5 , issue 1 Posted: 2014
L M Baer , Y Ertimur , J Zhang
Tainted executives as outside directors
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 7 , p. 33 - 59 Posted: 2023
M N H Bhuyan , M Subedi , M Akter
CEO-friendly boards and seasoned equity offerings
Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance , volume 36 Posted: 2022
S Edacherian , A Richter , A Karna , B Gopalakrishnan
Connecting the right knots: The impact of board committee interlocks on the performance of Indian firms
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 155 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
45
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies