Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chronic Shortage of CPAs: Leveraging Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Technology as a Sustainable Solution

14 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2025

Driss Camara

Desjardins Financial Security

Date Written: July 23, 2025

Abstract

Although the chronic shortage of certified public accountants (CPAs) is a global issue (including in Canada), in the United States the shortage is so acute that many organizations are unable to provide audited financial statements to stakeholders (i.e., tax authorities, regulators, rating agencies, creditors) on time. This crisis has led the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants to create the National Pipeline Advisory Group (NPAG) with the mandate to understand the root causes of the issue and make actionable recommendations. The NPAG made multiple recommendations to increase the CPA pipeline, and its 22-member group recognized that these recommendations alone will not fix the shortage of CPAs; therefore, it encouraged the profession to explore other avenues. Through this review I showed that widespread adoption of robotic process automation (RPA) technology is a sustainable solution to the shortage of CPAs. As research has shown, there are proven use cases, such as an RPA that can complete a task in 17 seconds instead of 17 hours, with an increase in accuracy by 99% instead of 90% frees employees for high-value tasks that require professional judgment. However, there are multiple roadblocks that are preventing the profession from leveraging RPA technology. Removing these impediments will help accelerate the adoption of the RPA technology, address the chronic shortage of CPAs, and contribute to the creation of career opportunities for professional CPAs.

Keywords: AI, Auditing, CPA Pipeline, CPA Shortage, NPAG, Processes, Robotic Process Automation, RPA

Declaration of Interest

N/A. This paper was not influenced by any organization or person.

Ethics Approval

NA. No participant was involved in this study.

Funder Statement

N/A. This paper was not funded by any organization or person.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Camara, Driss, Chronic Shortage of CPAs: Leveraging Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Technology as a Sustainable Solution (July 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5389045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5389045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A S Alawadhi , A A Alrefai
The metaverse and accounting: A paradigm shift in emerging technologies and their implications on accounting research
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 19 - 34 Posted: 2024
M G Alles
Business process "de-engineering": Establishing the value of the human auditor in an automated audit system
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 49 Posted: 2020
M G Alles , G L Gray
Will the medium become the message? A framework for understanding the coming automation of the audit process
Journal of Information Systems , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 109 - 130 Posted: 2020
General ledger standard | audit data standards Posted: 2015-07-30
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
374
RANK
552,835
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies