Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

The IASB Standard-Setting Literature: A Survey of Evidence and Future Research Opportunities

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

82 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2025

Humayun Kabir

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: August 07, 2025

Abstract

This paper provides a systematic review of the evidence regarding the International Accounting Standards Board's (IASB) standard-setting behavior and constituent participation in its standard-setting process. This broad objective is broken down into specific research questions based on the phases of the IASB's formal standard-setting process, and the review is structured around these questions. The sample comprises 75 research studies published from 2002 through 2023. The private interest theory informs the analysis of the evidence. The findings suggest that the IASB's standard-setting practices and constituent participation behavior are aligned with this theory. The results indicate that three broad areas attracted the most scholarly attention: changes in the IASB's governance and due process, constituent participation in the IASB's standard-setting process, and constituent influence on the IASB's standard-setting. However, several areas remain relatively underexplored, including agendasetting, constituent positions on IASB proposals and their determinants, the arguments and language choices in comment letters, the IASB's internal process, the arguments and language choices in International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and post-implementation reviews. The evidence reviewed in this paper suggests that the IASB largely maintained its independence in standard-setting and obtained legitimacy from its constituents. Finally, the paper identifies opportunities for further enriching the literature.

Keywords: Accounting Standard-Setting, IASB, IFRS

Declaration of Interest

None

Ethics Approval

Not applicable

Funder Statement

None

JEL Classification: G18, L51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kabir, Humayun,

The IASB Standard-Setting Literature: A Survey of Evidence and Future Research Opportunities

(August 07, 2025). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5394869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5394869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
160 References
K Ahmed , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A meta-analysis of IFRS adoption effects
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2014
A Allini , M Aria , R Macchioni , C Zagaria
Motivations behind users' participation in the standard-setting process: Focus on financial analysts
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 2018
A Amel-Zadeh , M Glaum , T Sellhorn
Empirical goodwill research: insights, issues, and implications for standard setting and future research
European Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 415 - 446 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
495
RANK
623,124
160 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies