Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Let Me Get What I Want: Motivations for Earnout Adoption in European Private Targets’ M&A

31 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2025 Last revised: 22 Sep 2025

Belen Gill-de-Albornoz

Jaume I University - Department of Finance and Accounting

Flavio Spagnuolo

University of Naples Federico II

Marco Maffei

University of Naples Federico II

Fiorenza Meucci

University of Naples Federico II

Date Written: September 22, 2025

Abstract

We investigate whether and how targets’ accounting quality and acquirers’ financial constraints jointly influence the use and structuring of earnout agreements, in an M&A setting characterized by high-information asymmetries and limited seller bargaining power. Drawing on a sample of European deals involving stand-alone private targets, we find that earnouts are 3-5% more likely when targets exhibit low accounting quality and 10-20% more likely when acquirers face high financial constraints. While only the latter significantly predict also the size of the earnout value, examining the interplay between these two drivers, we suggest that financially constrained acquirers may strategically exploit targets’ opacity to secure the use and the magnitude of the deferred payment. These findings highlight that earnouts serve a dual function, addressing both informational uncertainty and financing limitations, but that these frictions may interact to allow acquirers to leverage their negotiation power against relatively vulnerable sellers. Our results contribute to the M&A literature by providing evidence on how acquirers shape M&A terms involving less protected private targets, offering practical insights for owners, buyers, and policymakers involved in private-market transactions.

Keywords: M&A, private targets, earnout, Accounting quality, financial constraints

Suggested Citation:

Gill de Albornoz Noguer, Belen and Spagnuolo, Flavio and Maffei, Marco and Meucci, Fiorenza, Let Me Get What I Want: Motivations for Earnout Adoption in European Private Targets’ M&A (September 22, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5395797 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5395797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
K D Allee , T L Yohn
The demand for financial statements in an unregulated environment: An examination of the production and use of financial statements by privately held small businesses
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2009
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
The cash flow sensitivity of cash
The journal of finance , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 1777 - 1804 Posted: 2004
E I Altman , E Hotchkiss
Corporate financial distress and bankruptcy , p. 105 - 110 Posted: 1993
A Amel-Zadeh , Y Zhang
The economic consequences of financial restatements: Evidence from the market for corporate control
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
95
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies