Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Scope of Tax Accounting Research

15 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2025

Scott Dyreng

Duke University - Accounting

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Date Written: August 05, 2025

Abstract

We argue that tax researchers in accounting should expand the scope of their inquiry to include all types of taxes paid by all types of taxpayers, and that editors and reviewers should be more willing to review and consider such papers. Accountants in practice engage with a wide variety of taxes-such as payroll, sales, property, carbon, and other excise taxes-yet tax accounting scholars and journals have largely ignored these areas. We propose that broadening the scope of tax research will better align academic inquiry with real-world practice and public policy. Furthermore, we contend that accounting scholars bring valuable skills to the table for studying the effects of these taxes, given their institutional knowledge, familiarity with tax and accounting data, and experience with taxpayer behavior. By encouraging research on a broader set of taxes, accounting journals and tax accounting scholars have the potential to expand their impact and relevance. 

Suggested Citation:

Dyreng, Scott and Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Maydew, Edward L., The Scope of Tax Accounting Research (August 05, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5400761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5400761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Belnap , A Welsch , B Williams
Remote tax authority
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 Posted: 2023
R Clemons , T Shevlin
The Tax Policy Debate: Increasing the Policy Impact of Academic Tax Accounting Research
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 37 Posted: 2016
S Clor-Proell , O Even-Tov , C M C Lee , S
Bridging the Gap Between Academia and Practice in Accounting. Accounting Horizons , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2024
S D Dyreng , E L Maydew
Virtual Issue on Tax Research Published
Journal of Accounting Research. Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
493
RANK
427,404
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies