Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond environmental dissent: Extending counter-accounting to the professional audit space

Leeds University Business School Working Paper

63 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2025

Warren Maroun

University of the Witwatersrand

Alan J. Duboisée de Ricquebourg

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Dannielle Cerbone

University of the Witwatersrand

Wayne Van Zijl

University of the Witwatersrand

Abstract

This paper develops a framework to analyse how auditors respond to criticisms levied against them in the aftermath of high-profile corporate failures. It expands the domain of counter-accounting traditionally associated with environmental misconduct by corporations to encompass broader professional contexts. Drawing on theories of legitimacy management, neutralisation techniques, and mechanisms of resistance, the framework situates assurance opinions as “primary accounts”. When these conflict with stakeholders’ experiences, they are met with “counter-accounts”, which problematise audit performance and demand reform. The framework delineates how the power, persistence, and understanding of counter-accountants impact the choice of strategies deployed by the primary accountant: debunking, denying, deferring, defying, or detaching. These strategies are further operationalised into tactics, and their application is illustrated using short examples and a more detailed case involving KPMG’s audit of a failed UK construction company. Doing so offers a consolidated theoretical account of how auditors respond to legitimacy threats, integrating previously discrete strands of critical accounting literature. A reflexive assessment of contemporary audit is provided, which contributes to the ongoing debates on auditing’s normative potential. Finally, the framework has practical relevance for stakeholders who assess the responsiveness of auditors to criticism and design meaningful reforms.

Keywords: financial auditors, counter-accounting, legitimacy, neutralisation techniques, resistance

Suggested Citation:

Maroun, Warren and Duboisée de Ricquebourg, Alan J. and Cerbone, Dannielle and Van Zijl, Wayne, Beyond environmental dissent: Extending counter-accounting to the professional audit space. Leeds University Business School Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5418064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5418064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
KPMG's initial strategy is to debunk [C1]. Even after the corporate failure had been widely publicised, the audit firm's 2017 transparency report 14 did not refer to Carillion other than by noting that it was KPMG's client. The 2018 Transparency Report took a similar stance. Despite what the media considers overwhelming evidence of negligence on Carillion's audits, Carillion is only mentioned six times in the 112-page document. The leadership acknowledged "concerns about the 13 Reforming the auditing industry. Review commissioned by the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer, John McDonnell MP, conducted independently by Professor Prem Sikka and others , p. 3 - 4 Posted: 2018-12
incorporates KPMG UK's Transparency report and is Posted: 2017
XEDvwQFnoECA4QAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fassets.kpmg.com%2Fcontent%2Fdam%2Fkpmg%2Fuk%2Fpdf %2F2018%2F12%2Fannual-report-2018-transparency-report
Commons House
Oral evidence: Carillion
HC , volume 769 Posted: 2018-02-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
18
ABSTRACT VIEWS
108
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leeds University Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies