Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure Decision, Disclosure Quality, Disclosure Quantity, Disclosure Index on Financial Analyst Coverage: Evidence from Financial Times Global 500 Companies

International Journal of Finance, 38(4), 129-218. 

90 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2025 Last revised: 12 Sep 2025

Chi Keung Man

University of Aberdeen

Date Written: August 20, 2025

Abstract

Purpose:
For informational perspective, this study intends to examine how informativeness of corporate non financial disclosures, as a good surrogate for financial analysts, on financial analysts’ properties and behavior that evidenced from standalone corporate sustainability report, released by the top 500 multinational corporations in terms of market capitalization, yearly turnover and profitability, testifying how financial analysts’ data drilling and information-producing procedures being influenced by the latest on-rising publication trend, namely corporation social responsibility information.
Methodology:
This study uses OLS regression to examine the impact of CSR disclosures decision, disclosures quantity and disclosures quality on financial analyst coverage. Furthermore, this study will run GMM to robustness of the results. For the disclosure quality, this study will use self-developed research instrument to capture corporate CSR disclosure quality.
Findings:
The results show that firms issue stand-alone CSR reports can attract more financial analysts following the firms. When firms with thirty party assuring their CSR reports also attract more financial analysts following themselves. When firms with higher CSR disclosure quantity proxied by number of pages of CSR reports, they will have higher financial analyst coverage. Finally, firms with better social and environmental disclosure quality will attract more financial analysts following the firms.


Unique Contribution to Theory, Policy and Practice:
 This paper is the first examination of the impact of CSR disclosure on financial analyst behavior, to my knowledge. Unlike Dhaliwal et al. (2012), my research is to investigate the impact of CSR disclosures on financial analyst following. The results on this paper can help regulators to decide whether mandate firms issue stand-alone CSR reports or audit their CSR reports to help financial analysts using those reports. What is more, the results shows better disclosure index on social and environment in CSR reports will attract more financial analysts following provide more accuracy of their forecasts. So, regulators can decide whether to mandate firms to disclose more social and environmental issues to financial analysts and investors.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial Analysts, Disclosure Quality

Suggested Citation:

Man, Chi Keung, The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure Decision, Disclosure Quality, Disclosure Quantity, Disclosure Index on Financial Analyst Coverage: Evidence from Financial Times Global 500 Companies (August 20, 2025). International Journal of Finance, 38(4), 129-218. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5444055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5444055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
178
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies