Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unveiling the Nexus between Financialisation and State Governance: Data Assetisation in China

33 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2025

Zhiyuan Simon Tan

The University of Sydney

Lina Xu

RMIT University

Qingmei Xue

Nanjing University

Eagle Zhang

The University of Sydney

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

This study investigates a recent government-led initiative in China that seeks to financial data as an asset on corporate financial statements. Adopting the theoretical perspective of financialisation, the paper argues that this transformation in accounting practices signifies a broader process of financialization, which is strategically deployed as an instrument of state governance in China. By examining the public discussions among regulators, academics, and practitioners, this study identifies and analyses the key conceptual themes that have informed the prevailing understanding of this accounting policy change in China. It further explores how these conceptualisations are embedded within the broader socio-political context of China, and how this relationship contributes to extending the current understanding of accounting in the process of financialisation within the accounting literature. The findings indicate that while the prevailing discussions in China reflect broader themes of financialisation commonly observed in Western contextssuch as the restructuring of business models through market integrationthey also highlight a distinctive characteristic: in China, financialization is predominantly directed toward advancing state's objectives, rather than prioritising market efficiency or the maximisation of financial returns. Engaging with socio-political literature that underscores the active role of the state in shaping financialisation, this paper provides empirical insights into the interplay between accounting, financialisation, and the state. It contributes to critical accounting literature by extending its traditional focus on accounting's function in facilitating free-market mechanisms in contexts with lighter state intervention.

Keywords: China, Big Data, Financialisation, Intangible Asset, Data Governance

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Zhiyuan Simon and Xu, Lina and Xue, Qingmei and Zhang, Eagle and Zhang, Eagle, Unveiling the Nexus between Financialisation and State Governance: Data Assetisation in China (September 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5460218 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5460218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
179
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies