Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Less is More? The Effect of Reporting Frequency on Financial Reporting Quality

No

68 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2025 Last revised: 7 Oct 2025

Sam Islam

Elon University

Clark M. Wheatley

Florida International University

Date Written: August 02, 2025

Abstract

Does more frequent financial reporting improve earnings quality-or does it backfire by encouraging short-termism? While regulators promote frequent disclosures for transparency, others warn it may harm reporting integrity. We exploit the UK's shift from quarterly to semiannual reporting to provide new empirical evidence on this. Utilizing a difference-indifferences design, we provide robust evidence on how reporting frequency influences key dimensions of financial reporting quality. Our findings reveal that semiannual reporting enhances accruals quality, earnings persistence, and predictability, while significantly reducing earnings manipulation and the propensity to narrowly meet or beat earnings benchmarks. Our analysis shows that transitioning from quarterly to semiannual reporting leads to improved accrual quality, a decline in earnings management, enhanced predictive value of earnings, and lower levels of opportunistic behavior. The results suggest that less frequent reporting enhances the quality and reliability of financial information by mitigating firms' short-term pressures. Our study offers a nuanced understanding of this dynamic by addressing methodological gaps in prior research, such as misclassification of reporting behaviors, and employing manual verification of staggered adoption periods. Our findings challenge the prevailing belief that more frequent reporting necessarily improves transparency, offering important implications for global regulatory policy. This research contributes uniquely to the discourse on financial transparency, emphasizing the role of reporting frequency in facilitating high-quality, reliable financial information.

Keywords: Reporting Frequency, Financial Reporting Quality, Earnings Management, Accruals Quality, Managerial Myopia, Difference-In-Differences.

Declaration of Interest

No conflicts of interest

Ethics Approval

No human subjects

Funder Statement

Funding from universities

JEL Classification: G32, G28

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Sam and Islam, Sam and Wheatley, Clark M., Less is More? The Effect of Reporting Frequency on Financial Reporting Quality (August 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5481486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5481486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
S Arif , E T De George
The Dark Side of Low Financial Reporting Frequency: Investors' Reliance on Alternative Sources of Earnings News and Excessive Information Spillovers
The Accounting Review , volume 95 , p. 23 - 49 Posted: 2020
S Baker , N Bloom , S Davis , S Terry
COVID-induced economic uncertainty and its consequences
Perspectives from Around the World Posted: 2020
R Banham
Quarterly earnings reports at center of debate [WWW Document]
Journal of Accountancy Posted: 1920-09
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Relative valuation roles of equity book value and net income as a function of financial health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
177
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies