Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic policy uncertainty exposure and the valuation of non-financial assets: an analysis of Australian listed firms

China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 27, issue 4, 2025

28 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2025

Chang Liu

Griffith University

Fang Hu

Griffith University - The Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Daifei (Troy) Yao

Griffith University

Bin Li

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Date Written: September 01, 2025

Abstract

Purpose-This study aims to explore how a firm's exposure to economic policy uncertainty (EPU) affects the use of fair value (FV) measurement for non-financial assets. 

Design/methodology/approach-The analysis focuses on the selection of FV models for different types of non-financial assets. It examines how internal factors and external policy shocks (EPU) influence the adoption of FV measurement through regression analyses. 

Findings-The results reveal that firms with greater sensitivity to EPU are significantly less likely to adopt FV accounting for non-financial assets. This tendency is especially pronounced among firms that benefit from uncertain environments and is consistent with the conservatism principle. The effect varies by firm characteristics and industry context-being more evident among larger firms, those with high tangible assets or volatile cash flows and those operating in regulated or non-real estate sectors. 

Originality/value-This study contributes to the literature by linking macroeconomic uncertainty to accounting policy choice, highlighting EPU as a key external determinant of FVadoption. It extends prior work focused on internal drivers by empirically documenting how firms adapt accounting practices in response to policy uncertainty.

Keywords: Fair value accounting, Economic policy uncertainty exposure, Australian accounting

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Chang and Hu, Fang and Yao, Daifei (Troy) and Li, Bin, Economic policy uncertainty exposure and the valuation of non-financial assets: an analysis of Australian listed firms (September 01, 2025). China Accounting & Finance Review, volume 27, issue 4, 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5527478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5527478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
63
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies