Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Information Asymmetry Always Harm Firm Value? Evidence from China

42 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2025

Yihui Huang

Jinan University - College of Economics

Abstract

Besides adverse selection, hidden actions are another issue arising from information asymmetry. I regard the third-phase pilot of the China Tax Administration Information System (CTAIS-3) as a shock that mitigates information asymmetry between the government and firms. Using data on Chinese A-share listed companies, I find that CTAIS-3 significantly reduces firm valuation ratios. This decline is almost entirely driven by a deterioration in firm performance, which in turn is largely attributable to government regulation of hidden violations, such as tax evasion and upward sales manipulation. Surprisingly, the negative impact of CTAIS-3 on firm value is more pronounced in firms with weaker principal-agent conflicts. Furthermore, CTAIS-3 is associated with a systematic reduction in stock market risk. I argue that information asymmetry might also be exploited by firms to increase firm value. An active government can positively influence the market when it seeks to reduce its own information disadvantage.

Keywords: Information asymmetry, digitalization of tax administration, hidden violations, Firm Value

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Yihui and Huang, Yihui, Does Information Asymmetry Always Harm Firm Value? Evidence from China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5529586 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5529586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
A Agapova , N Volkov
Guidance on strategic information: Investor-management disagreement and firm intrinsic value
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 108 Posted: 2019
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the Radar: The Effects of Monitoring Firms on Tax Compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
I Alon , H Wang , J Shen , W Zhang
Chinese state-owned enterprises go global
Journal of Business Strategy , volume 35 , issue 6 , p. 3 - 18 Posted: 2014
J Altonji , T Elder , , . R
Selection on Observed and Unobserved Variables: Assessing the Effectiveness of Catholic Schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 184 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
111
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies