Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of IFRS 16 Adoption on Management Control Systems: A Preparer's View *

24 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2025

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jacobo Gomez-Conde

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid - Accounting Department

Araceli Mora

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 30, 2025

Abstract

The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued the new standard on lease accounting, International Financial Reporting Standard No. 16 (IFRS 16), in 2016, with an effective date of 2019, and initiated a post-implementation review in 2024. Research on the real impact of the new lease standard on companies' management control systems (MCS) is scarce, and descriptive and granular analyses of the specific changes occurring to MCS and their link to internal decisions remain unexplored. In this study, we extend the work of García Osma et al. (2025) by using the same online questionnaire, which took into account both IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 and we focus on the questions from their preparers´ survey related to IFRS 16 implementation. These results are not reported, nor the focus of their study, and therefore are not reported separately. We provide extensive descriptive evidence on the specific changes in IT and MCS that resulted from IFRS 16 implementation, as well as the changes in decision-making that these changes in IT and MCS entail. Our results align with the significant implementation costs claimed by many preparers during the standard’s development, reflecting diversity across different industries. Those who change IT and MCS also experience changes in decision-making, which can impact company performance by reducing costs or increasing efficiency.

Keywords: IFRS 16, Post-Implementation Review, Leasing Standard, Management Control Systems

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Gomez-Conde, Jacobo and Mora, Araceli, Consequences of IFRS 16 Adoption on Management Control Systems: A Preparer's View * (September 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5556640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5556640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
134
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies