Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Cash Flow Hedge Accounting on Future Profitability and Stock Returns: A Cross-Country Comparison

33 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2025

Douglas de Paula

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Eduardo Flores

University of São Paulo - School of Economics, Business and Accounting

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This study analyzes the impact of cash flow hedges (CFH) on future profitability and stock returns using a comprehensive sample of firms from 44 countries. The analysis reveals a significant negative association between CFH and future profitability in all countries, though the strength and significance of this relationship vary, suggesting the influence of country-specific factors. To evaluate the market’s response, a three-horizon return model is employed to examine the effect of CFH on stock returns, revealing a significant positive relationship for returns one and two years ahead. Notably, the findings indicate that investors perceive gains from CFH as beneficial for current stock returns but detrimental over a two-year horizon. The results partially align with previous studies and offer additional insights into how investors may differentiate between the short- and long-term implications of CFH gains and losses. Panel regression models with country-fixed effects and clustered standard errors are applied to control for unobserved heterogeneity and improve the reliability of the estimates. Overall, the findings support the proposed hypothesis, emphasize the role of country-specific factors in shaping CFH outcomes, and contribute to a deeper understanding of the financial reporting and market implications of hedge accounting practices across international settings.

Keywords: Cash Flow Hedges, stock returns, IFRS 9, Financial instruments, Accouinting & FInance, Cross-Country Derivatives

Suggested Citation:

de Paula, Douglas and Flores, Eduardo and Campbell, John L., Impact of Cash Flow Hedge Accounting on Future Profitability and Stock Returns: A Cross-Country Comparison. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5586804 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5586804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
India Canada , Norway , Israel Turkey ; Ireland , Spain ; Ireland , Israel , Malaysia , Singapore , Spain
REFERENCES Bank for International Settlements, 2021. Central Bank Survey. Statistical release: OTC derivatives at end-June 2021. Bank for International Settlements , volume 13 Posted: 2018-11
J Barton , T B Hansen , G Pownall
Which performance measures do investors around the world value the most-And why?
Account. Rev , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 753 - 789 Posted: 2010
R Bloomfield
The incomplete revelation hypothesis and financial reporting
Account. Horizons , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 233 - 243 Posted: 2002
G M Bodnar , G S Hayt , R C Marston
Wharton survey of financial risk management by US non-financial firms
Financ. Manag , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 70 - 91 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
51
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies