Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Other Information in Setting Stock Prices: A Cross-Country Comparison

26 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2004

David A. Guenther

University of Oregon - Department of Accounting

Kevin Jialin Sun

St. John's University

Date Written: September 1, 2004

Abstract

We investigate the explanatory power that Ohlson's (1995) other information (v) has for explaining stock prices in different countries. We use analysts' earnings forecasts to estimate the value of other information for a sample of public companies in seven industrialized countries. We hypothesize that in those countries where financial accounting earnings are more (less) value relevant, other information will be less (more) important in setting stock prices. We estimate separate firm-level time-series regressions, and our measure of value relevance is the increase in R2 from a regression of prices on book value, residual income, and other information. The increase in R2 from adding residual income to the model is negatively correlated with the increase from adding other information across our sample countries. Our results provide evidence that other information tends to be more (less) value relevant in those countries in which earnings information is less (more) value relevant.

JEL Classification: G12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Guenther, David A. and Sun, Kevin Jialin, The Importance of Other Information in Setting Stock Prices: A Cross-Country Comparison (September 1, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=586214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.586214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
303
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,039
RANK
229,292
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies