Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of SFAS 131 Geographic Segment Disclosures by U.S. Multinational Companies on the Valuation of Foreign Earnings

47 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2004 Last revised: 24 Dec 2007

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Florin P. Vasvari

London Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 17, 2007

Abstract

Foreign operations are becoming increasingly important for U.S. companies. We investigate whether the market's valuation of foreign earnings is a function of the firm's geographic segment disclosures. Specifically, we examine the effects of an increase in the number of geographic segments disclosed and the inclusion of earnings measures in geographic segment disclosures following the adoption of SFAS 131. We find strong evidence that our proxies for increased disclosure are positively associated with the valuation of foreign earnings. Our results are robust to a number of sensitivity analyses. Taken together, our results suggest that the pricing of foreign earnings is associated with important aspects of the firm's information environment.

Keywords: Foreign earnings, geographic disclosures, valuation, SFAS 131

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M47, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Kang, Tony and Thomas, Wayne B. and Vasvari, Florin P., The Effects of SFAS 131 Geographic Segment Disclosures by U.S. Multinational Companies on the Valuation of Foreign Earnings (December 17, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=591245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.591245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
AIMR member survey of "Global Corporate Financial Reporting Quality (and Corporate Communications and Disclosure Practice)
AICPA. Association for Investment Management and Research (AIMR). 1993. Financial Reporting in the 1990s and Beyond: A Position Paper of the Association for Investment Management and Research Posted: 1994
R Balakrishnan , T S Harris , P K Sen
The predictive ability of geographic segment disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 1990
Crossref
B K Behn , N B Nichols , D L Street
The predictive ability of geographic segment disclosures by U.S. companies: SFAS No. 131 vs. SFAS No. 14
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 1 , p. 31 - 44 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
928
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,374
RANK
58,020
33 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies