Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservatism and Shareholder Protection: One Effect or Two in the Explanation of the Differential Value Relevance of Earnings Across Countries*

26 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2004

Haihong He

University of Connecticut - School of Business; California State University, Los Angeles

Karen Teitel

College of the Holy Cross

William D. Brown

Quinnipiac University

Date Written: September 15, 2004

Abstract

This paper investigates the incremental effects of conservatism and shareholder protection on the value relevance of earnings across countries. Hung (2001) finds that the presence of shareholder protection mitigates the negative effect of accruals on the value relevance or earnings. We propose that shareholder protection is a proxy for the more general construct of conservatism and that conservatism subsumes the effect of shareholder protections on the value relevance of earnings. Our findings support our proposition. This paper contributesto both the conservatism and value relevance literature. It is the first paper to investigate the impact of conservatism on the value relevance of earnings across countries.

Keywords: conservatism, shareholder protection, value relevance of earnings

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

He, Haihong and Teitel, Karen and Brown, William D., Conservatism and Shareholder Protection: One Effect or Two in the Explanation of the Differential Value Relevance of Earnings Across Countries* (September 15, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=591744 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.591744
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zamijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 229 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,039
RANK
293,720
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies