Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Domestic and Foreign Earnings, Stock Return Variability, and the Impact of Investor Sophistication

58 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2004

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Dan Segal

Reichman University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

We examine whether domestic or foreign earnings contribute more to the variability of unexpected stock returns for a sample of U.S. multinationals and consider the role of investor sophistication. We use a variance decomposition methodology that measures the contribution of each earnings component (and expected future discount rates) to the variance of unexpected returns. We show that the contribution of each earnings component to the variance of unexpected returns depends both on the variance of the earnings component and on its persistence. We document that domestic earnings contribute significantly more to the variability of unexpected returns than do foreign earnings. We further find that the relative variance contribution of foreign earnings is an increasing function of the degree of investor sophistication. Finally, when we classify institutional investors as short-term and long-term following Bushee (1998), we find that the relative variance contribution of foreign earnings increases with the level of investment by long-term investors. In contrast, there is no significant relation between the degree of ownership by short-term (or transient) investors and the relative variance contribution of domestic and foreign earnings. Overall, our results are consistent with Thomas' (1999) finding that investors on average underestimate the persistence of foreign earnings due to lack of understanding of firms' foreign operations caused in part by poor disclosure.

Keywords: Variance contribution, valuation, foreign earnings, investor sophistication

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G12, G32, G23

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Segal, Dan, Domestic and Foreign Earnings, Stock Return Variability, and the Impact of Investor Sophistication. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=596641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.596641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
$
Crossref
#85
&amp; =$
Crossref
*
Load more
2 Citations
Jeffrey L. Callen
Shocks to Shocks: A Theoretical Foundation for the Information Content of Earnings
30 Pages · Posted: 14 Sep 2004 · Downloads: 565
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jeffrey L. Callen , Ole-Kristian Hope , Dan Segal
Domestic and Foreign Earnings, Stock Return Variability, and the Impact of Investor Sophistication
Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 43, pp. 377-412, June 2005 · 36 Pages · Posted: 8 May 2006 · Downloads: 38
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
467
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,610
RANK
140,880
2 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies