Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Status of International Business and Financial Reporting Harmonization

,

46 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2004

Haroldene Wunder

California State University, Sacramento - Department of Accounting

Abstract

This research describes the status of harmonization of international business and financial reporting. First, it identifies and addresses the issues that have historically represented obstacles to harmonization (i.e., differences in political economy, culture, legal systems, stage of economic development, reporting practices (i.e., micro-based versus macro-uniform financial reporting practices), and emotional resistance to change). Second, the research describes how multinational enterprises' (MNEs) need for access to international capital markets now dominates and propels the momentum toward international financial reporting standards, as demonstrated by the European Union's (EU)January 1, 2005, adoption of IASB standards. Finally, the research demonstrates that total convergence of international financial reporting standards is years away by describing the 100+ existing differences between IASB's international standards (IAS/IFRS) and U. S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).

Suggested Citation:

Wunder, Haroldene, The Status of International Business and Financial Reporting Harmonization. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=613622 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.613622
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D R Beresford
How to succeed as a standard-setter by trying really hard
Accounting Horizons , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 79 - 90 Posted: 1997
T S Doupnik , S B Salter
An empirical test of a judgmental international classification of financial reporting practices
Journal of International Business Studies , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 60 Posted: 1993
Crossref
D J Gannon , A Ashwall
Financial reporting goes global
Journal of Accountancy , volume 198 , issue 3 , p. 43 - 47 Posted: 2004
J R Grinyear , A Russell
National impediments to international harmonization: Evidence of lobbying in the U. K
Journal of International Accounting Auditing & Taxation , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 31 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
573
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,694
RANK
109,521
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies