Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Globalization and Culture: An Exploratory Study

,

Posted: 17 Nov 2004

Jeanne H. Yamamura

University of Nevada, Reno

Yvonne E. Stedham

University of Nevada, Reno - College of Business Administration

Date Written: May 11, 2004

Abstract

Accounting firms today provide services to multinational clients. In order to do so, accountants must not only understand the nuts and bolts of running businesses throughout the world but also the cross-cultural differences that appear when operating globally. The provision of adequate and effective service will require recognition of cross-cultural differences and the ability to incorporate this recognition into all client interactions and services rendered.

Achieving an adequate understanding of cross-cultural differences, however, becomes somewhat problematic in that opinions differ as to the stability of such differences. Divergence theorists believe national cultural characteristics to be enduring with differences among countries remaining intact over time. Convergence theorists, on the other hand, believe worldwide homogenization to be occurring due to the effects of globalization on countries, cultures and people. Child's 1981 review of cross-cultural studies revealed that most studies concluding convergence focused on macro-level issues such as organizational structure and technology whereas studies that concluded divergence focused on micro-level issues - in particular, the behavior of people within organizations. We offer an exploratory study of micro-level issues. We propose that although there may be homogenizing effects of globalization at the macro level, people's values and behaviors are less likely to be affected.

Our study examines current measurements of cultural characteristics from business people in Germany, Japan, and the United States (U.S.), three highly globalized countries. The results show that the three countries are different in certain cultural aspects and similar in others. The results of this study have important implications for accountants and others seeking to serve multinational clients as well as for the continually expanding field of cross-cultural research.

Keywords: globalization, national culture, change, Germany, Japan, USA

JEL Classification: M12, M59

Suggested Citation:

Yamamura, Jeanne H. and Stedham, Yvonne E., Globalization and Culture: An Exploratory Study (May 11, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=616261 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.616261
 Not Available for Download
0 References
1 Citations
Satoshi Sugahara , Gregory Boland
The Role of Cultural Factors in the Learning Style Preferences of Accounting Students: A Comparative Study between Japan and Australia
Accounting Education , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 235 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,569
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies