Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Effects of Adopting International Accounting Standards: the Case of Germany

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2004

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

K.R. Subramanyam

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Abstract

This study investigates the effects of adopting International Accounting Standards (IAS) on financial statements and their value relevance for a sample of German firms during 1998-2002. By implementing an innovative research design we compare accounting numbers reported under German accounting rules (HGB) with those under IAS for the same set of firm-years, and document how IAS adoption changes key financial measures and the value relevance of financial statement information. While HGB is stakeholder-oriented and commonly viewed as a historical cost accounting model that emphasizes income smoothing, IAS is shareholder-oriented and generally perceived as a fair-value accounting model that emphasizes balance sheet valuation. Consistent with these perceptions, we find that total assets and book value of equity, as well as variability of book value and net income, are significantly higher under IAS than HGB. In addition, we find that book value (net income) plays a greater (lesser) valuation role under IAS than under HGB. Finally, we find that while the IAS adjustments to book value are generally value relevant, the adjustments to income are generally value irrelevant. Our evidence provides new insights into the accounting differences between stakeholder-oriented and shareholder-oriented accounting systems and sheds light on the financial statement and valuation implications of adopting IAS in stakeholder-oriented economies, an issue that is particularly important in the upcoming adoption of IAS by the European Community.

JEL Classification: G12, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Hung, Mingyi and Subramanyam, K.R., Financial Statement Effects of Adopting International Accounting Standards: the Case of Germany. Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=622921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.622921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
D Alexander , S Archer
European Accounting Guide Posted: 2001
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2000
Crossref
E Amir , T Harris , E Venuti
A Comparison of the Value-relevance of US versus Non-US GAAP Accounting Measures Using Form 20-F Reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An Exploratory Study of the Valuation Properties of Cross-listed Firms' IAS and U.S. GAAP Earnings and Book values
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,857
ABSTRACT VIEWS
44,755
RANK
6,471
48 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies