Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Valuation Effects of Firm Voluntary Adoption of International Accounting Standards

45 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2005

Irene Karamanou

University of Cyprus - Department of Public and Business Administration

George Nishiotis

University of Cyprus-Faculty of Economics and Management-Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 2005

Abstract

This paper documents a positive, statistically and economically significant effect of increased disclosure, in general, and IAS adoption, in particular, on firm value. We find strong positive abnormal returns at the announcement of IAS adoption and an economically significant long-run reduction in the cost of capital. This result is consistent with the theoretical literature, which documents the potential benefits of increased disclosure on the cost of capital and firm value. In addition, we find strong evidence that firms with lower valuations and higher growth opportunities experience greater valuation effects. Finally, we document a statistically significant increase in the number of analysts issuing recommendations as well as a significant upgrade in their recommendations after the IAS adoption announcement. These results highlight the importance of increased disclosure on minority shareholder protection and are consistent with IAS adoption being a positive signal of firm value.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards, Information, Cost of Capital, Shareholder Protection, Signaling

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Karamanou, Irene and Nishiotis, George P., The Valuation Effects of Firm Voluntary Adoption of International Accounting Standards (July 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=676328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.676328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
H Ashbaugh
Non-US Firms' Accounting Standard Choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives vs. Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in Four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
702
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,291
RANK
84,371
11 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies