Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976

55 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2005

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Date Written: September 1, 2007

Abstract

We examine whether application of International Accounting Standards is associated with higher accounting quality. The application of IAS reflects the combined effects of features of the financial reporting system, including standards, their interpretation, enforcement, and litigation. We find that firms applying IAS from 21 countries generally evidence less earnings management, more timely loss recognition, and more value relevance of accounting amounts than do a matched sample of firms applying non-US domestic standards. Differences in accounting quality between the two groups of firms in the period before the IAS firms adopt IAS do not account for the post-adoption differences. We also find that firms applying IAS generally evidence an improvement in accounting quality between the pre- and post-adoption periods. Although we cannot be sure that our findings are attributable to the change in the financial reporting system rather than to changes in firms' incentives and the economic environment, we include research design features to mitigate the effects of both.

Keywords: IAS, IASB, International Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards Board, International Financial Reporting Standards

JEL Classification: G12, G15, M41, M47

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E. and Landsman, Wayne R. and Lang, Mark H., International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality (September 1, 2007). Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=688041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.688041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
H Ashbaugh
Non-U.S. Firms' Accounting Standard Choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An Exploratory Study of the Valuation Properties of Crosslisted Firms' IAS and U.S. GAAP Earnings and Book Values
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13,117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
67,374
RANK
814
188 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

Financial Statement Effects of Adopting International Accounting Standards: the Case of Germany

By Mingyi Hung and K.r. Subramanyam

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies