Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation of the Relationship between Use of International Accounting Standards and Source of Company Finance in Germany

42 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2005 Last revised: 15 Mar 2012

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Melissa Moy

University of Western Australia

Richard Donald Morris

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: January 21, 2012

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between use of international accounting standards and companies’ source of finance. We investigate the proposition contained in Nobes’ (1998) model which postulates outsider companies (those with a higher level of public finance) in weak equity-outsider markets (capital markets where public equity finance is not the dominant source of finance) are more likely to change their type of accounting system from one focused on information for creditors and tax authorities to one that meets the needs of external financiers. We found strong support for Nobes’ model. Using 408 German listed companies at 1999, we observed that companies with more outsider finance (the proportion of shares held by outsiders and the presence of public debt) were more likely to use international standards (US GAAP or IAS). The results indicate the importance of controlling for source of finance at the company rather than country level in cross-country studies investigating the benefits of adoption of international standards.

Keywords: international accounting standards, IAS IFRS, US GAAP, source of company finance, outsider equity, outsider debt, foreign stock exchange listing

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G32

Suggested Citation:

Tarca, Ann and Moy, Melissa and Morris, Richard Donald, An Investigation of the Relationship between Use of International Accounting Standards and Source of Company Finance in Germany (January 21, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=773807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.773807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
H Al-Basteki
Voluntary Adoption of International Accounting Standards by Bahraini Corporations
Advances in International Accounting , volume 8 Posted: 1995
H Ashbaugh
Non-US Companies' Accounting Standard Choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Standards and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball
International Financing Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors.' Accounting and Business Research Posted: 2006-01-01
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,676
RANK
96,333
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies