Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recognition and Measurement of Assets in the International Accounting Harmonization. Impairment Test and Intangibles in a Dynamic Perspective

Comptabilite Controle Audit, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 55-72, November 2004

Posted: 10 Aug 2005

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) provide intriguing and controversial issues for accounting theory. The article analyses rules for impairment test (IFRS 36) and intangibles (IFRS 38) from a theoretical viewpoint, renewing the old-fashioned distinction between static (market-based) and dynamic (process-based) accounting, that is fair value or accruals. It concludes that, concerned with non financial assets, the IASB rule for impairment is more closely related to accomodating "lower of cost or market value" than to advancing fair value revolution. Further developing that theoretical distinction, two different bases for the notion of asset are discussed, either as economic) actualisation of future cash inflows or as (accrual) capitalization of actual cash outflows. As consequence, accrual accounting is contrasted both with fair value and actualisation. Its informational content, indeed, may be complementary to financial market valuations, especially if equity interest calculation is provided on accrual basis.

Keywords: Accounting theory, international accounting harmonization, impairment of assets, intangibles, asset valuation recognition and measurement, dynamic accounting

JEL Classification: M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri, Recognition and Measurement of Assets in the International Accounting Harmonization. Impairment Test and Intangibles in a Dynamic Perspective. Comptabilite Controle Audit, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 55-72, November 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=774924
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,791
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies