Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise of Deferred Tax Assets in Japan: The Case of the Major Japanese Banks

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2005 Last revised: 21 Aug 2008

Douglas J. Skinner

The University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: August 1, 2005

Abstract

This paper describes the role that accounting for deferred taxes has played in the ongoing financial crisis among the major Japanese banks, as dramatized most vividly by the recent collapse of Resona Bank. I argue that deferred tax accounting: (1) has been used by the Japanese Government, including bank regulators, to help give the major banks collectively the appearance of financial well-being in spite of their economic difficulties, and (2) that managers of these banks have used deferred tax accounting to bolster their banks' regulatory capital levels when their economic circumstances deteriorate. I present evidence that is generally consistent with these arguments, supporting economists' views that accounting has played a role in helping the Japanese Government to postpone the politically difficult task of reforming the major banks.

Keywords: Japanese banks, Earnings management, Deferred taxes, Regulatory Capital, BIS Rules

JEL Classification: E50, G21, M41, M43, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Skinner, Douglas J., The Rise of Deferred Tax Assets in Japan: The Case of the Major Japanese Banks (August 1, 2005). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=813784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Average past ROA is the average of the three past years' ROA. Count of past losses is the number of losses in the past three fiscal years. Deferred tax assets (DTAs) is gross deferred tax assets before subtracting the valuation allowance, if any. Loan loss provision is the amount of the bank's deferred tax assets comprised of temporary differences due to book-tax differences in accounting for loan losses. Loss carryforwards is the amount of the bank's deferred tax assets attributable to tax loss carryforwards. The deferred tax variables are from bank financial statements while the financial variables (except total assets and stockholders' equity) are from the Nikkei NEEDS database
Notes. Total assets and stockholders' equity are from Compustat Worldscope. Net deferred taxes is net deferred taxes from the bank's balance sheet (i.e., deferred tax assets net of both the valuation allowance, if any, and deferred tax liabilities, if any)
total unrealized gains on securities (short dashes), and cumulative after-tax realized gains on securities and real estate (longer dashes) for major Japanese banks
Plot of total SE Posted: 1982
Figure 2: Components of Major Japanese Banks' Stockholders' Equity, F1993 to F2003
Profits and Balance-Sheet Developments of Japanese Banks in Fiscal
Major Japanese Banks' Stockholders' Equity and Net Deferred Tax Assets, F1993 to F2003 , volume 3 Posted: 1998-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
922
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,542
RANK
58,536
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Choice between Public and Private Debt: An Analysis of Post-Deregulation Corporate Financing in Japan

By Takeo Hoshi, Anil K. Kashyap, ...

Do Banking Shocks Affect Borrowing Firm Performance? An Analysis of the Japanese Experience

By Jun-koo Kang and René M. Stulz

Zombie Lending and Depressed Restructuring in Japan

By Ricardo J. Caballero, Takeo Hoshi, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies