Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Home Bias, Foreign Mutual Fund Holdings, and the Voluntary Adoption of International Accounting Standards

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

EFA 2006 Zurich Meetings

40 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2005

Vicentiu Covrig

California State University, Northridge - Department of Finance, Financial Planning and Insurance

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Mingyi Hung

University of British Columbia (UBC); Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) - Department of Accounting

Abstract

We test the assertion that a consequence of voluntarily adopting International Accounting Standards (IAS) is the enhanced ability to attract foreign capital. Using a unique database that reports firm-level holdings of over 25,000 mutual funds from around the world, our multivariate tests find that average foreign mutual fund ownership is significantly higher among IAS adopters. We also find that IAS adopters in poorer information environments and with lower visibility have higher levels of foreign investment, consistent with firms using IAS adoption to provide more information and/or information in a more familiar form to foreign investors. Taken together, our findings are consistent with voluntary IAS adoption reducing home bias among foreign investors and thereby improving capital allocation efficiency.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards, Home bias, Portfolio choice

JEL Classification: G11, G15, G23, M41, M44, M45, M47

Suggested Citation:

Covrig, Vicentiu and DeFond, Mark and Hung, Mingyi, Home Bias, Foreign Mutual Fund Holdings, and the Voluntary Adoption of International Accounting Standards. Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, EFA 2006 Zurich Meetings, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=815286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
R ; L Aggarwal , P Klapper; , Wysocki
Portfolio Preferences of Foreign Institutional Investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A G Ahearne , ; ; W. L Griever , F E Warnock
Information Costs and Home Bias: An Analysis of U.S. Holdings of Foreign Equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , p. 313 - 349 Posted: 2004
Crossref
D Alexander , S Archer
European Accounting Guide Posted: 2003
H Ashbaugh
Non-US Firms' Accounting Standard Choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
908
ABSTRACT VIEWS
24,322
RANK
59,810
4 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies