Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards and Earnings Management Around the World

59 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2005 Last revised: 5 Aug 2015

Michael D. Yu

State University of West Georgia

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 3, 2008

Abstract

This study investigates the relation between accounting standards and earnings management around the world. I find that international accounting standards, accrual-based accounting standards, accounting standards with increased disclosure requirements, and separating tax and financial reporting all constrain earnings management. Following previous studies, I treat accounting standard measures as being endogenous, and use instrumental variables to re-estimate the model. I find consistent results. I conclude that accounting standard policy is an important institution in determining the quality of reported financial information. Different from prior international earnings management studies, I directly test whether international firms are managing earnings using the distribution method. I find evidence that firms are managing reported earnings around the world. I also document that high-quality accounting standards decrease analyst forecast error.

Keywords: Earnings management, Accounting standards, Accruals, Financial disclosure, Analyst forecasts, Institutions, Financial reporting, Distribution method

JEL Classification: G15, G18, G34, G38, M41, M43, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Yu, Michael D., Accounting Standards and Earnings Management Around the World (March 3, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=825146 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.825146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M Aoki
Toward an Economic Model of the Japanese Firm
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 28 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 1990
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure Requirements for an Economically Efficient System of Public Financial Reporting and Disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 182 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R ; S Ball , Kothari; And A , Robin
The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Therese Frøyen Reksten , Kai André Kristiansen
Resultatstyring i Norske Aksjeselskaper
Praktisk økonomi & finans , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 23 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Ahsan Habib
'Benchmark Beating' as Evidence of Earnings Management: Review of the Literature
31 Pages · Posted: 10 Jan 2006 · Downloads: 1,284
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,213
RANK
16,843
2 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies