Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying Voluntary Disclosure Theories to Intangibles Reporting: Evidence from the Portuguese Stock Market

24 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2005

Lúcia Maria Portela de Lima Rodrigues

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Lidia Oliveira

University of Minho - School of Economics and Management

Russell Craig

Australian National University (ANU) - School of Business and Information Management

Abstract

This paper draws upon agency theory, political cost theory, signalling theory, and legitimacy theory to construct an index of the voluntary disclosure of intangibles by companies listed on the Euronext market in Lisbon. We analyse the Management Report and Chairman's Letter of all 56 listed companies at 31 December 2003 (49 companies on the main market and 7 on the secondary market). We test several hypotheses about associations between the index of voluntary disclosure of intangibles (the dependent variable) and 8 firm specific characteristics (the independent variables: size, leverage, ownership diffusion, auditor size, profitability, industry, listing status and foreign activity). Our results reveal factors that influence the voluntary disclosure of intangibles in the small European capital market of a country where managers generally do not perceive capital markets as an important source of financing. Univariate analysis showed a significant influence of size, ownership diffusion, type of auditor, industry and listing status on the voluntary reporting of intangibles. Multivariate analyses revealed that the hypotheses concerning size, industry, type of auditor and ownership diffusion (and listing status to a lesser extent) provide a satisfactory basis for explaining firms' behaviour towards the voluntary provision of intangibles information. Other hypotheses, relating to leverage, profitability and foreign activity were rejected. Our results support the application of agency and political costs theories, signalling theory and legitimacy theory in determining the reporting of intangibles information in the annual reports of listed companies in Portugal.

Keywords: Intangibles, intellectual capital, voluntary disclosure, Portugal

Suggested Citation:

Portela de Lima Rodrigues, Lúcia Maria and Oliveira, Lidia and Craig, Russell, Applying Voluntary Disclosure Theories to Intangibles Reporting: Evidence from the Portuguese Stock Market. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=825764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.825764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
M Aikten , C Hooper , J Pickering
Determinants of voluntary disclosure of segment information: A re-examination of the role of diversification strategy
Accounting and Finance , volume 37 , p. 89 - 109 Posted: 1997
Crossref
G Akerlof
The Market for' Lemons: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 2 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 1994
Crossref
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of non-financial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,232
RANK
41,699
1 Citations
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies