Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards and Information: Inferences from Cross-Listed Financial Firms

International Finance Discussion Paper No. 843

41 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2005

John Ammer

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

Nathanael Clinton

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Greg Nini

Drexel University - Department of Finance

Date Written: October 2005

Abstract

Publicly traded financial firms within the European Union will be required to adhere to International Accounting Standards (IAS) in their financial reporting beginning in 2005, which can entail a higher degree of financial disclosure than was previously mandated under national accounting standards. A number of European financial firms had previously subjected themselves to additional disclosure by listing their stock on U.S. exchanges, which obligates them to reconcile their financial accounts to U.S. GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles). Among national accounting systems, U.S. GAAP is considered to be both among the strictest and the most similar to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). To test whether U.S. GAAP reconciliation effectively enhances disclosure, we examine several measures of transparency for the cross-listed firms, relative both to pre-listing measures and to a control sample of firms that have not cross-listed. Our measures include bid-ask spreads, earnings forecast errors, analyst coverage, dispersion in earnings expectations, and disagreement between Moody's and S&P's bond ratings. We find evidence that cross-listing increases transparency in at least some cases. Our cross-sectional results also distinguish a handful of European financial firms that had already adopted IFRS before the European Commission announced that IAS would be required in the near future, with results similar to those of the cross-listed firms. Accordingly, to the extent that commitment to increased transparency has been a motivation for cross-listing, the adoption of IAS in Europe may reduce the incentives for European firms to cross-list in the United States.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards, bid-ask spreads, earnings estimates

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G21, G22, G28, M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Ammer, John Matthew and Clinton, Nathanael and Nini, Gregory, Accounting Standards and Information: Inferences from Cross-Listed Financial Firms (October 2005). International Finance Discussion Paper No. 843, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=834684 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.834684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
John Ammer , Sara B Holland , David C Smith , Francis E Warnock
Look at me Now: The Role of Cross-Listing in Attracting U.S. Shareholders Posted: 2004-08
Hollis Ashbaugh , Per Olsson , ; Ias , U S Gaap
An Exploratory Study of the Valuation Properties of Cross-Listed Firms
Accounting Review Posted: 2002-01
Hollis Ashbaugh , Morton Pincus
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 417 - 437 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Levon Babalyan
Association between Accounting Earnings and Stock Returns as a Measure of Value Relevance of Accounting Standards: Empirical Evidence from the Swiss Market
EFA 2002 Berlin Meetings Discussion Paper Pages: 36 Posted: 27 Feb 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
545
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,531
RANK
116,737
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies