Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financing Constraint, Over-Investment and Market-to-Book Ratio

Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming

14 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2005 Last revised: 27 Nov 2008

Yann Braouezec

IESEG School of Management, LEM CNRS, UMR 9221

Date Written: November 17, 2008

Abstract

In a simple symmetric information continous time model, we consider leverage as way to finance a fraction of the investment cost. We show that underinvestment cannot arise while over-investment may and the room for overinvestment is negatively related with the fraction paid by equityholders. Finally, we show that our model predicts the (empirically observed) negative relation between the market-to-book ratio and the leverage ratio.

Keywords: Overinvestment, profitability, market-to-book ratio, leverage ratio, financing constraint

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Braouezec, Yann, Financing Constraint, Over-Investment and Market-to-Book Ratio (November 17, 2008). Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=841165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
E Berkovitch , Kim E
Financial Contracting and Leverage Induced Over-and Under-Investment Incentives
Journal of Finance , volume 3 , p. 765 - 794 Posted: 1990
Crossref
T Bielecki , M Rutkowski
Credit Risk: Modeling, Valuation and Hedging Posted: 2001
Yann Braouezec , Charles-Albert Lehalle
Corporate Liquidity, Dividend Policy and Default Risk: Optimal Financial Policy and Agency Costs
Pages: 48 Posted: 7 Apr 2008 Last revised: 30 May 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Chen , X Zhao
On the Relation Between the Market-to-Book Ratio, Growth Opportunity, and Leverage Ratio
Finance Research Letters , volume 3 , p. 253 - 266 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Weiping Li , Zixin Liang , Jiayi Hong , Xiaoqi Chen
Does Air Pollution Affect Corporate Debt Cost? Evidence from China
ENEECO-D-22-00892 · 32 Pages · Posted: 21 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 113
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
816
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,800
RANK
69,213
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Binomial Model and Risk Neutrality: Some Important Details

By Sanjay K. Nawalkha and Donald R. Chambers

A Synthesis of Binomial Option Pricing Models for Lognormally Distributed Assets

By Don M. Chance

Corporate Liquidity, Dividend Policy and Default Risk: Optimal Financial Policy and Agency Costs

By Yann Braouezec and Charles-albert Lehalle

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies