Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Properties of Intangibles Recognized Under Domestic Accounting Standards: Evidence from Pre-Ifrs Major European Markets

44 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2006 Last revised: 11 Mar 2009

Jean-Francois Casta

University Paris-Dauphine - DRM Finance

Olivier J. Ramond

Université Paris Dauphine - CEREG Research Centre

Lionel Escaffre

University of Angers - Laboratoire Angevin de Recherche en Gestion des Organisations (LARGO)

Date Written: July 1, 2008

Abstract

This study investigates whether European domestic GAAPs used for intangibles recognition prior to the IFRS adoption exhibit major differences while examining the relationship between a firm's economic (financial, operating and competitive) performance and its recognized intangible investment (RII). Using a five-European-country sample over the pre-IFRS compliance period 1993-2004, we first provide evidence that, independently of the intangibles accounting recognition practices, investors adopt a short-term perspective or "myopic view" while constructing their portfolios by penalizing firms with high RII. Secondly, contrary to the resource-based view, our results suggest that RII do not underpin under any accounting treatment better competitive position inside a specific industry. Finally, our findings clearly support the idea that EU continental accounting standards, while opposed to Anglo-Saxon settings, ease the relationship existing between RII and firm operating performance. This last result would suggest that IFRS adoption could lead to disconnect operating margins from RII and subsequently challenge the widespread claim that IFRS help produce higher-quality reporting about a firm's operating activities.

Keywords: Intangibles, Goodwill, R&D, Recognition, Domestic GAAPs, Usefulness, Relevance, Informativeness

JEL Classification: G31, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Casta, Jean-Francois and Ramond, Olivier J. and Escaffre, Lionel, Economic Properties of Intangibles Recognized Under Domestic Accounting Standards: Evidence from Pre-Ifrs Major European Markets (July 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=860705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.860705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
A Almon
The distributed lag between capital appropriations and expenditures
Econometrica , volume 33 , p. 178 - 96 Posted: 1965
Crossref
D Alexander , S Archer
Goodwill and the difference arising on first consolidation
The European Accounting Review , volume 5 , p. 243 - 69 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Al-Horani , P F Pope , A W Stark
Reaserch and development activity and expected returns in the United Kingdom
European Finance Review , volume 7 , p. 178 - 96 Posted: 1965
T W Anderson , C Hsiao
Formulation and estimation of dynamic models using panel data
Journal of Econometrics , volume 18 , p. 47 - 82 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
545
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,919
RANK
116,737
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Universite Paris-Dauphine Research Papers Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Stock Market Valuation of Research and Development Expenditures

By Louis K.c. Chan, Josef Lakonishok, ...

The Risk and Return from Factors

By Louis K.c. Chan, J. Karaceski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies