Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Odd Couple: A Common Future for Financial and Tax Accounting?

Tax Law Review, Vol. 58, No. 2, 2005

Posted: 8 Dec 2005

Wolfgang Schoen

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance, Department of Business and Tax Law

Abstract

The topic of "book-tax-conformity" is widely discussed both in different countries and at the international level. While in the UK and the US there is a growing tendency to strengthen the linkage between financial and tax income measurement, other countries - like Germany - tend to loosen the former dependence of tax accounting from commercial rules. Within the European Community, the International Accounting Standards/International Financial Reporting Standards are thought to form a "starting point" for a Common Consolidated Tax Base, and in the context of international transfer pricing conflicts a common set of financial accounting rules could prove helpful.

Against this background the article tries to address the question whether financial and tax accounting could go together in the future. At the outset it comes to the conclusion that there are no fundamental differences between the logic of tax income measurement and commercial investor information or creditor protection lying at the heart of financial accounting standards. The biggest difference concerns liquidity because investor information (opposite to tax returns) does not oblige the enterprise to pay money. Therefore the application of the "fair value principle" as enshrined in modern accounting standards is only feasible in the context of tax accounting if capital markets ensure that the taxpayer is able to raise money transaction-cost free when unrealised appreciations are shown in the income statement. This is exactly what IAS/IFRS are meant to bring about.

Another topic concerns the impact of book-tax-conformity on the behaviour of political institutions (tax legislation, standard setting bodies) and of individual managers when preparing their accounts. It is said that the different aims of tax and financial accounting lead to "pollution" of the legislative process and to distortions of individual accounting decisions. On the other hand it can be argued that binding together tax and financial accounts leads to moderate conflict-solving rules which prevents politicians and managers to take extreme positions. In the end, it may also serve as an instrument to fight tax shelters. At the international stage, a common set of financial accounting rules could substantially lower compliance costs and transfer pricing risks.

JEL Classification: M41, H25, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Schön, Wolfgang, The Odd Couple: A Common Future for Financial and Tax Accounting?. Tax Law Review, Vol. 58, No. 2, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=869186
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,257
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies