Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: A Survey of Accounting, Business and Economics Students in Hong Kong

19 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2005

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Simon S. M. Ho

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: February 4, 2006

Abstract

The ethics of tax evasion has been discussed sporadically in the theological and philosophical literature for at least 500 years. Martin Crowe wrote a doctoral thesis that reviewed much of that literature in 1944. The debate revolved around about 15 issues. Over the centuries, three main views evolved on the topic.

This paper begins with a review of the literature and identifies the main issues and summarizes the three main viewpoints that have emerged over the centuries. It then reports on the results of a survey of Hong Kong accounting, business and economics students who were asked their opinions on the ethics of tax evasion. The survey consisted of 15 statements, representing the 15 issues and 3 viewpoints that have emerged over the centuries. Participants were asked to signify the extent of their agreement with each statement by placing a number from 1 to 7 in the space provided. Ninety (90) usable responses were received. The data were then analyzed to determine which of the three viewpoints was dominant among the sample population. Male scores were also compared to female scores to determine if the responses differed by gender.

Keywords: tax evasion, evade, ethics, China, Hong Kong

JEL Classification: H26, E62, O54

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Ho, Simon S. M., The Ethics of Tax Evasion: A Survey of Accounting, Business and Economics Students in Hong Kong (February 4, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=869306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.869306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Clavisio Angelus Of
Summa Angelica, as cited in Martin T. Crowe, The Moral Obligation of Paying Just Taxes, The Catholic University of America Studies in Sacred Theology No , volume 84 Posted: 1494
Mary Armstrong , Jack Beth , Robison
The Ethics of Tax Evasion
Ethics & Public Policy , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 330 - 348 Posted: 1998
Apostolos A Ballas , Haridimos Tsoukas
Consequences of Distrust: The Vicious Circle of Tax Evasion in Greece
Ethics & Public Policy , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 284 - 304 Posted: 1998
Aemilio Berardi
Praxis Confessariorum II, as cited in Martin T. Crowe, The Moral Obligation of Paying Just Taxes, The Catholic University of America Studies in Sacred Theology No , volume 84 Posted: 1898
Load more
59 Citations
Robert W. McGee
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: A Survey of Vietnamese Opinion
Andreas School of Business Working Paper · 21 Pages · Posted: 4 Oct 2006 · Downloads: 304
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert W. McGee , Silvia López Paláu
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: Two Empirical Studies of Puerto Rican Opinion
26 Pages · Posted: 22 Feb 2007 · Downloads: 249
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Irina Nasadyuk , Robert W. McGee
Taxation and Public Finance in Transition and Developing Economies
, p. 639 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Robert W. McGee , Sheldon R. Smith
Ethics, Tax Evasion, Gender and Age: An Empirical Study of Utah Opinion
23 Pages · Posted: 14 Jan 2007 · Downloads: 397
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,699
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,507
RANK
24,002
59 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Jewish Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

Christian Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

Three Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies