Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differences between Domestic Accounting Standards and IAS: Measurement, Determinants and Implications

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 07-04

45 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2005

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Yuan Ding

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Thomas Jeanjean

ESSEC Business School - Department of Accounting and Management Control; ESSEC Business School

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 3, 2006

Abstract

This study analyzes determinants and effects of differences between Domestic Accounting Standards (DAS) and International Accounting Standards (IAS). We use an extensive list of differences between DAS and IAS to create two indices, absence and divergence. Absence measures the extent to which the rules regarding certain accounting issues are missing in DAS but are covered in IAS. Divergence applies in circumstances where the rules regarding the same accounting issue differ in DAS and IAS. It measures the extent of differences between DAS-based rules and IAS-based rules.

Using a sample of 30 countries for 2001, we show that absence is (mainly) determined by the importance of the equity market and ownership concentration, while divergence is positively associated with the level of economic development and the importance of the accounting profession, but is constrained by the importance of equity markets. Our analysis suggests that a higher level of absence implies more opportunities for earnings management and for decreases in firm-specific information to investors. A larger divergence from IAS is associated with richer firm-specific information in capital markets.

Keywords: International accounting differences, institutional factors, earnings management, synchronicity

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Ding, Yuan and Jeanjean, Thomas and Jeanjean, Thomas and Stolowy, Hervé, Differences between Domestic Accounting Standards and IAS: Measurement, Determinants and Implications (March 3, 2006). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 07-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=869844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.869844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standard choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K V Auer
Capital market reactions to earnings announcements: Empirical evidence on the difference in the information content of IAS-based earnings and EC-directives-based earnings
European Accounting Review , volume 5 , p. 587 - 623 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
26 Citations
Jessica Hong Yang , Nada Kakabadse , Dmytro Lozovskyi
International financial reporting standards (IFRS) as a change agent in Ukraine
Journal of Governance and Regulation , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 139 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Pham Hoai Huong
Vietnam’s path to converging with international accounting standards
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 644 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Sayan Basu
Convergence of IFRS and Ind AS – A Descriptive and Exploratory Insight
International Journal of Advanced Research in Science, Communication and Technology , p. 34 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Alessandro Mechelli , Riccardo Cimini
How have the IAS/IFRS adoption affected earnings management in EU? The effect of the absence/divergence of regulation and of legal enforcement
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 154 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,029
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,546
RANK
18,220
26 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies