Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing the Profits and Size of Greek Banks Operating Abroad: A Pooled Time-Series Study

Applied Financial Economics, Vol. 15, No. 10, pp. 731-738, 2005

Posted: 19 Apr 2006

Kyriaki Kosmidou

Technical University of Crete (TUC) - Department of Production Engineering and Management

Fotios Pasiouras

GSCM-Montpellier Business School

Angelos Tsaklanganos

Neapolis University Pafos (NUP)

Abstract

This paper extends the literature on foreign banking by developing a model that attempts to explain the performance of Greek banks operating abroad using a balanced pooled time-series dataset. Five variables are drawn from the multinational banking literature and represent ownership-specific and location-specific factors. The profits of the subsidiaries operating abroad were found to be related to the profits of the parent bank, the trade between Greece and the host country, the difference in the GDP growth between the two countries, the years operating in the host market and the time trend. The size of the subsidiaries was found to be related to the size of the parent bank, the trade, the GDP growth, the years of operation and the time trend. Furthermore, the results indicate that models developed using variables drawn from the multinational banking literature provide a better description of the size of the subsidiaries of Greek banks operating abroad rather than their profits.

Keywords: banks, profits

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Kosmidou, Kyriaki and Pasiouras, Fotios and Tsaklanganos, Angelos, Factors Influencing the Profits and Size of Greek Banks Operating Abroad: A Pooled Time-Series Study. Applied Financial Economics, Vol. 15, No. 10, pp. 731-738, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=897476
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,565
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies