Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linking Profits to Asset-Liability Management of Domestic and Foreign Banks in the UK

Applied Financial Economics, Vol. 14, No. 18, pp. 1319-1324, 2004

Posted: 19 Apr 2006

Kyriaki Kosmidou

Technical University of Crete (TUC) - Department of Production Engineering and Management

Fotios Pasiouras

GSCM-Montpellier Business School

Jordan Floropoulos

Aristotle University of Thessaloniki - Department of Economics

Abstract

This paper employs the statistical cost accounting method on a sample of 36 domestic and 44 foreign banks operating in the UK over the period 1996-2002 to examine the relationship between profits and asset-liability composition. The sample was initially split into high and low profit banks by comparing their operating profit with the industry average. The results show that high profit banks experience considerably lower cost of liabilities for most sources of funding, which can cover any losses from the lower rate of return on assets that they experience compared to their lower profit competitors. The sample was then split into domestic and foreign banks. The operating profit that domestic banks experience appeared to be generated by the loans that they hold on their earning assets portfolio and their fixed assets while the operating profit of foreign banks was generated by all the assets that comprise their portfolios. Turning to liabilities, in both cases customer and short-term funding was found to be more costly than other sources of funding.

Keywords: Banks, Cost Accounting, UK,

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Kosmidou, Kyriaki and Pasiouras, Fotios and Floropoulos, Jordan, Linking Profits to Asset-Liability Management of Domestic and Foreign Banks in the UK. Applied Financial Economics, Vol. 14, No. 18, pp. 1319-1324, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=897477
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,973
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies