Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wage Structure and Labor Mobility in Norway 1980-1997

NHH Dept. of Finance & Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2005/3

53 Pages Posted: 6 May 2006

John A. Hunnes

University of Agder - School of Business and Law

Jarle Møen

Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) - Department of Business and Management Science

Kjell G. Salvanes

NHH Norwegian School of Economics - Department of Economics; IZA Institute of Labor Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 12, 2005

Abstract

To what extent do different firms follow different wage policies? How do such policies affect worker mobility between firms, and what are the effects of different wage bargaining regimes? The empirical branch of personnel economics has long been hampered by a lack of representative data sets. Norway is one of a handful of countries that has produced rich linked employer-employee data suitable for such analysis. This paper has three parts. First, we describe the wage setting and employment protection institutions in Norway. Next, we describe the Norwegian data sets. Finally, we document a large number of stylized facts regarding wage structure and labor mobility within and between Norwegian firms. Our main data set covers white-collar workers in the manufacturing and private sectors for the period 1980-1997. We also have blue-collar data for the 1986-1997 period covering the core of the manufacturing sector. Information about occupations, monthly wages, hours worked and bonuses is available, as well as various worker and firm characteristics.

Keywords: Wage structure, mobility

JEL Classification: J31, M51

Suggested Citation:

Hunnes, John Arngrim and Moen, Jarle and Salvanes, Kjell G., Wage Structure and Labor Mobility in Norway 1980-1997 (September 12, 2005). NHH Dept. of Finance & Management Science Discussion Paper No. 2005/3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=899328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.899328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R Aaberge , A Bjørklund , M Jannti , P Pedersen , N Smith , T Wennemo
Unemployment Shocks and Income Distribution: How did the Nordic Countries Fare During Their Crisis?
Scandinavian Journal of Economics , volume 102 , p. 77 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Davis , J Haltiwanger
Gross Job Creation, Gross Job Destruction, and Employment Reallocation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 107 , issue 3 , p. 819 - 863 Posted: 1992
Crossref
S J Davis , J Haltiwanger
Employer Size and the Wage Structure
Annales d'Economie Et De Statistique , p. 323 - 367 Posted: 1996
P.-A Edin , B Holmlund , O N Skans
This Volume
Wage Structure in Sweden Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,733
RANK
472,944
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Labor: Supply & Demand eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Extent and Consequences of Downward Nominal Wage Rigidity

By Joseph G. Altonji and Paul J. Devereux

Does Inflation "Grease the Wheels of the Labor Market"?

By David Card and Dean Hyslop

Robustness and Real Consequences of Nominal Wage Rigidity

By Ernst Fehr and Lorenz Goette

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies