Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of International Accounting Standards on Firms

AAA 2006 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Meeting Paper

13 Pages Posted: 16 May 2006

Marjan Petreski

University American College Skopje (UACS); Finance Think - Economic Research & Policy Institute

Date Written: August 5, 2006

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to provide some arguments for the effects of the adoption of the International Accounting Standards on firms. Therefore, IAS impact on firms' management and financial statements are analysed. Provided financial statements intend to support or reject findings in the literature for IAS effects on them.

Keywords: International accounting standards

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Petreski, Marjan, The Impact of International Accounting Standards on Firms (August 5, 2006). AAA 2006 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=901301 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.901301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Mary E. Barth , Wayne R. Landsman , Mark H. Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 1976 Pages: 55 Posted: 11 Apr 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Blanc
International Accounting Standards -The impact on your Business Systems. Financias Posted: 2003
J L L Combarros
Accounting and finance audit harmonization in the European Union
EBSCO host , volume 9 , p. 643 - 654 Posted: 2001
P Dumontier , B Raffouriner
Why Firms Comply with IAS: an Empirical Analysis with Swiss Data
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 216 - 242 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,151
RANK
3,958
4 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies