Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Ifrs Improve the Usefulness of Accounting Information in a Code-Law Country?

37 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2006

Anna-Maija Lantto

University of Vaasa

Date Written: March 12, 2007

Abstract

This study investigates whether IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) improves the usefulness of accounting information in a chosen code-law country (i.e. Finland) that has a strong system of legal enforcement and high quality domestic accounting standards. Empirical analyses based on three surveys, run by financial analysts, managers and auditors, support the hypothesis that new information provided by IFRS is relevant. Even though the results show that managers and auditors deem information prepared under many IFRS/IAS-standards reliable, the results show that they are, overall, neutral towards the reliability of information prepared by using judgment under IFRS.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, usefulness, relevance, reliability, survey

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G18, G15

Suggested Citation:

Lantto, Anna-Maija, Does Ifrs Improve the Usefulness of Accounting Information in a Code-Law Country? (March 12, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=905218 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.905218
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R Ball , S P Kothari &amp; Robin , A
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , A Wu , J S
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , issue 3 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M E Barth , G Clinch
Revalued financial, tangible, and intangible assets: associations with share prices and non-market-based value estimates
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 199 - 204 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Krismiaji , Y. Anni Aryani , Djoko Suhardjanto
International Financial Reporting Standards, board governance, and accounting quality
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 474 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Luzi Hail , Christian Leuz
Capital Market Effects of Mandatory IFRS Reporting in the EU: Empirical Evidence
85 Pages · Posted: 13 Dec 2009 · Last revised: 20 Nov 2011 · Downloads: 2,242
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David Hillier , Allan Hodgson , Shaban Ngole
IFRS and Secrecy: Assessing Accounting Value Relevance Across Africa
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 237 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Luay Taqi Kadhim , Khemaies Bougatef
The Impact of International Accounting and Auditing Standards on the Quality of Financial Reporting
Revista de Gestão Social e Ambiental , volume 18 , issue 8 , p. e06215 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,670
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,111
RANK
11,661
7 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies