Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Stability of Financial Markets and the Role of the Rational International Investor

The ICFAI Journal of Behavioral Finance, Vol. 3, No. 4

16 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2006

Robert Bruckner

Bawag P.S.K.; QS - Quant Solutions

Abstract

Foreign Investors are indeed guilty of destabilizing national financial markets where they are active. This paper analyzes the impact international investors have on the trading stability of financial markets. By calibrating GJR-GARCH models on overlapping, moving windows of daily returns for the German equity index DAX I find strong statistical evidence that a large portion of the asymmetric part of the model can be explained by investor composition. Apparently, increased exposure of international investors results in larger asymmetry in the conditional volatility. This strongly links the foreign investor to increased market volatility during adverse market information inflows. Thus, trading behavior of foreign investor adds destabilizing influences to the financial market.

Keywords: Stability, International Investors, Foreign Investor, GARCH, Asymmetric Information

JEL Classification: C32, D40, D82

Suggested Citation:

Bruckner, Robert, On the Stability of Financial Markets and the Role of the Rational International Investor. The ICFAI Journal of Behavioral Finance, Vol. 3, No. 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=910180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Carol ; Wiley Alexander , F Black , M Scholes
Market Models, A Guide to Financial Data Analysis
Journal of Political Economy , volume 81 , p. 637 - 659 Posted: 1973
Tim Bollerslev , Jeffrey M Wooldridge
Quasi-maximum likelihood estimation and inference in dynamic models with time-varying covariances
Econometric Reviews , volume 11 , p. 143 - 172 Posted: 1992
Bollerslev
Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity
Journal of Econometrics Posted: 1986
Crossref
Michael J Brennan , H Henry Cao
International Portfolio Investment Flows
Journal of Finance , volume 52 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,805
RANK
511,635
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Investor Diversification and International Equity Markets

By Kenneth R. French and James M. Poterba

Why is There a Home Bias? An Analysis of Foreign Portfolio Equity Ownership in Japan

By Jun-koo Kang and René M. Stulz

Familiarity Breeds Investment

By Gur Huberman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies