Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Optimism' vs 'Big Bath' Accounting - a Regulatory Dilemma in Chinese Financial Reporting Practices

28 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2006

CHUN JIANG

New England Business School, University of New England

Date Written: July 1, 2006

Abstract

Although China's accounting system has experienced an evolution during the last three decades, its financial reporting practices are still not satisfactory. Optimism, by means of overstating companies' profits and assets value, has always been criticized in China. Therefore, the principle of Conservatism may provide a means of minimizing such improper behavior. With such concern, the paper systematically reviews the financial reporting problems in China. However, through analysis, it is found that although Optimism exists, the extremely contrary case - Big Bath accounting also exists. Hence, this paper argues that Conservatism may not be applicable in contemporary China's financial reporting environment.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Chinese Accounting System, Optimism, Conservatism, Big Bath Accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

JIANG, CHUN, 'Optimism' vs 'Big Bath' Accounting - a Regulatory Dilemma in Chinese Financial Reporting Practices (July 1, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=922484 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.922484
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Eric Abetz
The role of Corporate Governance in improving transparency and accountability in the public sector
Paper presented at IQPC Conference Posted: 2003
R Ball , A Robin , &amp; J Wu
Incentives versus standards: Properties of accounting income in four East Asia countries
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 70 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Robert M Bushman , D Joseph , Piotroski
Financial reporting incentives for conservative accounting: The influence of legal and political institutions
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
880
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,566
RANK
62,467
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Effect of International Institutional Factors on Properties of Accounting Earnings

By Ray Ball, S.p. Kothari, ...

Conservatism in Accounting

By Ross L. Watts

The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting

By Robert W. Holthausen and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies