Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2006

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Abstract

Accounting in shaped by economic and political forces. It follows that increased worldwide integration of both markets and politics (driven by reductions in communications and information processing costs) makes increased integration of financial reporting standards and practice almost inevitable. But most market and political forces will remain local for the foreseeable future, so it is unclear how much convergence in actual financial reporting practice will (or should) occur. Furthermore, there is little settled theory or evidence on which to build an assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of uniform accounting rules within a country, let alone internationally. The pros and cons of IFRS therefore are somewhat conjectural, the unbridled enthusiasm of allegedly altruistic proponents notwithstanding. On the "pro" side of the ledger, I conclude that extraordinary success has been achieved in developing a comprehensive set of "high quality" IFRS standards, in persuading almost 100 countries to adopt them, and in obtaining convergence in standards with important non-adopters (notably, the U.S.). On the "con" side, I envisage problems with the current fascination of the IASB (and the FASB) with "fair value accounting." A deeper concern is that there inevitably will be substantial differences among countries in implementation of IFRS, which now risk being concealed by a veneer of uniformity. The notion that uniform standards alone will produce uniform financial reporting seems naive. In addition, I express several longer run concerns. Time will tell.

Keywords: International accounting standards, IAS, IFRS, fair value accounting

JEL Classification: F02, F39, G15, M41, M44, M47, N20

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=929561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
S A Aisbitt
Why did(n't) the accountant cross the road? Towards a model of European enforcement of International Financial Reporting Standards
Emerging Issues in International Accounting & Business Conference Posted: 2004-06-02
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Basic concepts and accounting principles underlying financial statements of business enterprises
Statement of the Accounting Principles Board Posted: 1970
Load more
12 Citations
Jan D. Fasshauer , Martin Glaum
The Value Relevance of Pension Fair Values and Uncertainty
53 Pages · Posted: 19 Oct 2009 · Last revised: 25 Oct 2012 · Downloads: 621
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Georgios Georgakopoulos , Dimitrios Gounopoulos , Chen Huang , Victoria Patsika
The impact of IFRS adoption on IPO management earnings forecasts in Australia
Forthcoming: International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation · 51 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2013 · Last revised: 21 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 722
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zining Li , Qiliang Liu , Gerald J. Lobo , Le Luo
Mandatory Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Earnings Management: Evidence from China
43 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2014 · Downloads: 58
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohammad Nurunnabi
Tensions between Politico‐Institutional Factors and Accounting Regulation in a Developing Economy: Insights from Institutional Theory
Business Ethics: A European Review, Vol. 24, Issue 4, pp. 398-424, 2015 · 27 Pages · Posted: 8 Sep 2015 · Downloads: 7
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34,550
ABSTRACT VIEWS
148,572
RANK
141
12 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

Financial Statement Effects of Adopting International Accounting Standards: the Case of Germany

By Mingyi Hung and K.r. Subramanyam

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies