Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Environment, Dividend Changes, and Signaling: Evidence from ADR Firms

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2006 Last revised: 22 Jan 2016

Raj Aggarwal

Kent State University Foundation; University of Akron; Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland; Kent State University

Jian Cao

Florida Atlantic University

Feng Chen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: April 14, 2010

Abstract

While theory suggests that dividends can be an important signal for firm performance, prior studies have been unable to provide strong evidence of dividend signaling among publicly listed U.S. companies. One potential explanation for this inconsistency between theory and empirical evidence is that the cross-sectional variation in information asymmetry across U.S. firms is insufficient to provide adequate test power. In this study, we revisit the link between dividend signaling and firms’ information environment by examining the dividend behavior of foreign firms that cross-list on the U.S. stock market in the form of American Depository Receipts (ADRs). Our evidence suggests that ADR firms with poorer information environments have stronger incentives to adopt dividend increases as a signaling device. We also find that such firms experience an increase in one-year-ahead earnings and a decline in systematic risk following a dividend increase. Additional analysis shows that ADR firms have fewer other information channels compared to similar U.S. firms. Overall, we provide evidence consistent with the importance of dividend signaling, especially for firms with poorer information environments.

Keywords: ADR Firms, Dividend Sgnaling, Earnings, Information Environment

JEL Classification: G14, G35, M41, F36

Suggested Citation:

Aggarwal, Raj and Aggarwal, Raj and Cao, Jian and Chen, Feng, Information Environment, Dividend Changes, and Signaling: Evidence from ADR Firms (April 14, 2010). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=938204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.938204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
P Clarkson , A Dontoh , G Richardson , S Sefcik
The voluntary inclusion of earnings forecasts in IPO prospectuses
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 601 - 627 Posted: 1992
Crossref
P Clarkson , J Kao , G Richardson
The inclusion of forecasts in the MD&A section of annual reports: A voluntary disclosure perspective
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 423 - 50 Posted: 1994
V M Covrig , M L Defond , M Hung
Home bias, foreign mutual fund holdings, and the voluntary adoption of international accounting standards
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 70 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Crawley , B Ke , Y Yu
Causes and consequences of cross-listed firms' voluntary adoption of U.S. securities laws: The case of Regulation Fair Disclosure. Working paper Posted: 2009
Load more
3 Citations
Sebastian Kuhlmann , Joachim Rojahn
The Impact of Ownership Concentration and Shareholder Identity on Dividend Payout Probabilities: New Evidence from the German Stock Market
Corporate Ownership & Control / Volume 15, Issue 1, Fall · 15 Pages · Posted: 22 Sep 2017 · Downloads: 351
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thomas J. Boulton , Marcus V. Braga-Alves , Bidisha Chakrabarty
The Effect of Reporting Opacity on Trading Opacity: New Evidence from ADR Trades in Dark Pools
Pace University Finance Research Paper No. 2019/01 · 54 Pages · Posted: 7 May 2019 · Last revised: 6 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 174
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chunhua Chen , Songhe Shi , Xiaoping Song , Steven Xiaofan Zheng
Financial Constraints and Cross-Listing
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Forthcoming · 45 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 84
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,356
RANK
349,147
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies