Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of Service Quality in the Banking Industry: Some Evidence from Turkish- and Greek-Speaking Areas in Cyprus

International Journal of Bank Marketing, Vol. 3, No. 7, pp. 508-526, 2005

Posted: 27 Oct 2006

Huseyin Arasli

Eastern Mediterranean University

Salih Turan Katircioglu

Eastern Mediterranean University

Salime Mehtap Smadi

Eastern Mediterranean University

Abstract

Purpose - To analyze and compare service quality in the commercial banking sector of a small island economy - Cyprus - and to investigate the relationship between overall bank customer satisfaction in the Turkish- and Greek-speaking areas of Cyprus and positive word-of-mouth about their banks.

Design/methodology/approach - A total of 268 commercial bank customers responded to a Greek and Turkish translated version of the SERVQUAL instrument. After descriptive and factor analysis, multivariate regression was used to estimate the impact of service quality dimensions on overall customer satisfaction and word of mouth.

Findings - The responsiveness dimension failed to load and thus the SERVQUAL scale proved to be of a four-dimensional structure in this study. Research results revealed that the expectations of bank customers in both areas were not met and that the largest gap was found in the empathy dimension. The assurance dimension had the largest influence on customer satisfaction and overall satisfaction of bank customers in both areas of Cyprus had a positive effect on their word-of-mouth.

Research limitations/implications - There were some difficulties in conducting interviews in the Greek-speaking area of Cyprus and this may have limited the potential sample size. Future research could test the generalizability of findings in other small island economies and look at how the service is delivered by frontline employees.

Practical implications - Helps banks in both areas of Cyprus to redefine their corporate image to one that is customer-focused and driven by service quality. Findings are also significant for the Turkish-speaking area which is not at the same level of economic development as its neighbours in the south and needs to restructure its banking system before accession to the EU.

Originality/value - This study investigates service quality in a small island economy. There is disparity in the banking sector of a divided Cyprus, where banks in the South have undergone significant restructuring before EU accession and banks in the North are affected by the economic crisis and need to restructure if they want to join the EU.

Keywords: Customer services quality, SERVQUAL, Banks, Customer satisfaction, European Union, Cyprus

JEL Classification: A13, C81, D12

Suggested Citation:

Arasli, Huseyin and Katircioglu, Salih Turan and Smadi, Salime Mehtap, A Comparison of Service Quality in the Banking Industry: Some Evidence from Turkish- and Greek-Speaking Areas in Cyprus. International Journal of Bank Marketing, Vol. 3, No. 7, pp. 508-526, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=940589
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,524
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Service Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies