Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Model for the Convergence of Accounting Standards

Research in Accounting Regulation, Vol. 19, 2006

Posted: 28 Nov 2006

Shogo Kimura

Nagoya University - School of Economics

Hikaru Ogawa

Nagoya University

Abstract

The globalization of capital markets has greatly impacted the harmonization of accounting standards. The International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) has contributed to the harmonization of accounting standards by issuing the International Accounting Standards (IAS). In 2001, the International Accounting Standard Board (IASB), which succeeded the IASC, made a commitment to achieve full convergence to a single set of high-quality global accounting standards. While the IASB established IAS of high-quality, both understandable and enforceable, the international harmonization of accounting or the convergence of accounting standards is still a much debated issue in accounting research. Using a simple game theoretic model, this paper examines the mechanism by which various countries in the global economy may come to adopt a single accounting standard. This standard would dominate the domestic standard of each country and would be called Global Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GGAAP).

Keywords: International Accounting Standards, IASB, Harmonization, Global GAAP

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47

Suggested Citation:

Kimura, Shogo and Ogawa, Hikaru, A Model for the Convergence of Accounting Standards. Research in Accounting Regulation, Vol. 19, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=947364
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,071
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies