Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bonding to the Improved Disclosure Environment in the United States: Firms' Listing Choices and Their Capital Market Consequences

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2006

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Yoonseok Zang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Abstract

This paper examines whether the current reporting and disclosure requirements for foreign registrants in the United States affect foreign firms' decisions to list on a U.S. exchange. We find that while firms from a weak disclosure environment are more likely to cross-list and either trade over-the-counter or be placed privately among institutional investors, they are less likely to list on an exchange in which firms are required to comply with U.S. GAAP. This is consistent with the idea that the decrease in the potential private control benefits accruing to managers discourages them from listing on an organized exchange. We further conduct pricing tests to investigate whether the choice relating to the mode of listing has capital market consequences. These tests indicate that: (1) exchange-listing firms receive a higher valuation (i.e., Tobin's q) than non-exchange-listing firms; and (2) exchange-listing firms domiciled in a higher disclosure regime, who incur lower costs of U.S. GAAP compliance, generally receive a higher valuation than exchange-listing firms from a lower-disclosure regime. Overall, the lower tendency of firms domiciled in a lower disclosure regime to list on an organized exchange appears to be consistent with the smaller valuation benefit they receive from the listing.

Keywords: Bonding, Cross-Listing, Disclosure

JEL Classification: G12, G15, M41, M44, M45, M47

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Kang, Tony and Zang, Yoonseok, Bonding to the Improved Disclosure Environment in the United States: Firms' Listing Choices and Their Capital Market Consequences. Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=948670 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.948670
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Jenkins Committee Report). 1994. Improving business reporting -A customer focus. Meeting the information needs of investors and creditors
Special committee on financial reporting
E Amir , T Harris , E Venuti
A comparison of the value-relevance of U.S. vs. non-U.S. GAAP accounting measures using Form 20-F reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
Crossref
P Berger , F Li , F Wong
The impact of Sarbanes-Oxley on cross-listed companies. Working paper Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
522
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,924
RANK
123,107
8 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies