Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harmonization of the International Accounting System

8 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2007

Paul Diaconu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies; Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Date Written: January 12, 2007

Abstract

Globalization is one of the biggest social processes which the humanity has facing since ever. That's why it's impact in the global economy is huge. Facing a global challenge financial information system has called for consistent financial information produced by accounting. One of the main international accounting processes on the actual period is the harmonization of the national accounting systems. There are the two main systems which are disputing the first stage of being the benchmark: GAAP and IFRS. Each of them has his pluses and minuses on being the choused one. Due to this fact a convergence of the two, joining the advantages and disadvantages of the two should be the solution for an unique international accounting solution. Is this idea realizable, what steps has been made until now, what should be done in the future. These are the questions on which this paper is trying to answer.

Keywords: globalization harmonization, convergence, international accounting standards

JEL Classification: M41, F01, F02

Suggested Citation:

Diaconu, Paul and Diaconu, Paul, Harmonization of the International Accounting System (January 12, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=957029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.957029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
A Anderson
The Globalization GAAP
Management Accounting , p. 52 - 54 Posted: 1993-08
A R Belkaoui
The Evolution of Research on International Accounting Harmonization
Journal of Accounting Literature Posted: 1994
Frederich Choi , D S Frost , Carol A Meek , Gary K
International Accounting Posted: 1999
Philip Dunn
International Accounting Standards
Journal of Accounting Literature Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,997
ABSTRACT VIEWS
21,228
RANK
4,239
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies