Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Multivariate Analysis of the Determinants of Auditors' Opinion on Asian Banks

Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 22, No. 3, pp. 268-287, 2007

Posted: 27 Jan 2007

Chrysovalantis Gaganis

University of Crete - Faculty of Social Sciences - Department of Economics

Fotios Pasiouras

GSCM-Montpellier Business School

Abstract

Prior studies on the determinants of audit reports focus on non-financial sectors. In contrast, the present study examines the determinants of auditors' opinion in the banking industry, using a sample of banks drawn from 9 Asian countries over the period 1995-2004. We use logistic regression and a sample of 199 qualified financial statements and 4,403 unqualified ones. The results indicate that Asian banks that receive qualified opinions are in general smaller ones, less well capitalized, less profitable and cost efficient, and appear to have excess liquidity. More external auditing requirements and less accounting and disclosure requirements in the banking sector, also increase the probability of receiving a qualified audit opinion. Knowledge of the above mentioned characteristics could be of particular interest to bank's managers, investors, credit analysts and bank supervisors. Despite the economic importance of the banking industry, accounting researchers have done little to investigate the various relationships that exist between banks and their auditors. Furthermore, most studies focus on the US market and examine the pricing of audit services for financial institutions, the audit opinions on publicly-traded Savings & Loans institutions that subsequently failed, the effectiveness of bank audit, the loss underreporting and the auditor role of examination of banks, the impact of accounting and auditing systems on risk-shifting of safety nets in banking. The present paper extends the literature by investigating the determinants of external auditors' opinion on Asian banks.

Keywords: Asia, Auditing, Banks, Logistic regression

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gaganis, Chrysovalantis and Pasiouras, Fotios, A Multivariate Analysis of the Determinants of Auditors' Opinion on Asian Banks. Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 22, No. 3, pp. 268-287, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=959435
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,407
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies