Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Different GAAPs Affect Performance of Valuation Models: Evidence from Asia-Based Companies

Advances in Accounting, Vol. 25, No. 2, pp. 284-294, December 2009

39 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2008 Last revised: 15 May 2011

Kun Wang

Texas Southern University - Jesse H. Jones School of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 13, 2011

Abstract

Use of accounting information to assess a firm's value is a very important subject for financial analysts, investors, lenders, policy-makers, and other market participants. This study compares the relative performance of three valuation models based on a sample of all relevant American Depositary Shares (ADRs) from selected Asian countries and a matched sample of U.S. counterparts, using accounting variables reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), non-U.S. GAAP, and IFRS. Understanding how these different GAAPs affect valuation is increasingly important, especially after the U.S. SEC decided in 2007 to accept IFRS, in place of U.S. GAAP, for financial reports of non-U.S. companies.

Keywords: Valuation models, financial markets, international accounting, international financial reporting standards (IFRS)

JEL Classification: M4, N20

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Kun and Smith, Murphy, How Different GAAPs Affect Performance of Valuation Models: Evidence from Asia-Based Companies (May 13, 2011). Advances in Accounting, Vol. 25, No. 2, pp. 284-294, December 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=960870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in difference countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , P Olsson
An exploration study of the valuation properties of Cross-listed firms' IFRS and US GAAP earnings and book values
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 2002
Crossref
B Bao , L Chow
The usefulness of earnings and book value for equity valuation in emerging capital markets: evidence from listing companies in the People's Republic of China
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 10 , p. 85 - 104 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Mark Bergman , Tong Yu , Patricia Vaz De Almeida
SEC Agrees to Accept IFRS Financial Statements of Foreign Private Issuers Posted: 2008-01-08
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,818
RANK
44,921
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies