Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation of Compliance With International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council Member States

49 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2007

Bader Al-Shammari

Public Authority for Applied Education and Training (PAAET)

Philip R. Brown

UWA Business School, M250; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Date Written: January 24, 2007

Abstract

This study investigates the extent of compliance with international accounting standards (IASs) by companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council (GCC) member states (Bahrain, Oman, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates). Based on a sample of 137 companies (436 company-years) we found that compliance increased over time, from 68% in 1996 to 82% in 2002. There was significant variation in compliance among the six countries and between companies based on size, leverage, internationality and industry. Non-compliance was greater than that observed in developed countries and reflected limited monitoring and enforcement by the bodies responsible for overseeing financial reporting and limited comprehensiveness of audits by external auditors.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards (IAS), compliance, audit, enforcement, Gulf Co-Operation Council (GCC) member states

JEL Classification: K22, M41, M44, M47, M49

Suggested Citation:

Al-Shammari, Bader and Brown, Philip R. and Tarca, Ann, An Investigation of Compliance With International Accounting Standards by Listed Companies in the Gulf Co-Operation Council Member States (January 24, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=963574 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.963574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
W M Abdallah
Managing multinationals in the Middle East: Accounting and tax issues Posted: 2001
A M Abdelrahim , A M Hewaidy , G N Mostafa
The relevance of international accounting standards to the evaluation of fixed assets in Kuwait corporations
Arab Journal of Administrative Sciences , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 53 - 96 Posted: 1997
A M Abdelrahim , G N Mostafa
Accounting for investment for listed companies on the KSE
The Accountants) , volume 6 , issue 16 , p. 30 - 45 Posted: 2000
J Abdulla
Corporate financing policy in Oman: Perceptions of executives
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 117 - 142 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,043
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,217
RANK
49,384
11 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Dimensions of National Culture and the Accounting Environment - the Spanish Case

By Oriol Amat, John Blake, ...

The Impact of Adopting IASs on the Jordanian Environment: The Perspective of Accountants, Auditors and Academicians 'An Exploratory Study'

By Malek Alsharairi and Riyadh Jasim Al-abdullah

Are IFRS Income Statements Comparable?

By Christopher Hossfeld

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies