Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Comparative Valuation Effects of Enhanced Disclosure and Cross-Listing in the US

32 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2007 Last revised: 17 Jul 2012

Irene Karamanou

University of Cyprus - Department of Public and Business Administration

George Nishiotis

University of Cyprus-Faculty of Economics and Management-Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 15, 2012

Abstract

Using a large sample of international firms we investigate the corporate decisions to voluntarily adopt International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS), and to cross-list in the US. We jointly examine these globalization decisions by employing a multinomial logistic model, and use this framework to correct for selection bias in our valuation analysis. We find no significant differences between our documented valuation premia of IFRS and US exchange listed firms. This indicates that cross-listing valuation benefits stem mainly from disclosure enhancement than from the stricter US legal system and that voluntary disclosure can be beneficial even in the absence of a strong legal environment. Furthermore, we find strong evidence that firms from countries with weak investor protection and firms less integrated with the world market benefit more from IFRS adoption. In contrast, we find no evidence that cross-listing on a US exchange is valued more for firms with weaker home country investor protection.

Keywords: Disclosure, IFRS, Cross-Listing, Bonding, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G15, G38, G34

Suggested Citation:

Karamanou, Irene and Nishiotis, George P., An Examination of the Comparative Valuation Effects of Enhanced Disclosure and Cross-Listing in the US (July 15, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=968230 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.968230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
R Aggarwal , L Klapper , P Wysocki
Portfolio preferences of Foreign Institutional Investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , p. 2919 - 2965 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Ammer , S B Holland , D C Smith , F E Warnock
Look at Me Now: What Attracts U.S. Shareholders?
NBER Working Paper Series Posted: 2006
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS adoption in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standards choice
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,172
RANK
649,413
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

Why are Foreign Firms Listed in the U.S. Worth More?

By Craig Doidge, George Andrew Karolyi, ...

The Future as History: The Prospects for Global Convergence in Corporate Governance and its Implications

By John C. Coffee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies