Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Firm Reporting: The Case of Portugal

22 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2007

Francisco J. F. Silva

University of the Azores - Department of Economics and Business

Gualter Couto

University of the Azores

Date Written: January 2007

Abstract

To increase efficiency of the European finance market, the European Union (EU) recently forced all public companies to publish their financial disclosures with the support of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), emanated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), beginning January 1, 2005. In this paper, we measure the impact of the application of IFRS to financial information of Portuguese public companies belonging to the Eurolist by Euronext Lisbon. The results show that the Balance Sheet and Income Statement structures of the firms studied suffered relevant accounting conversions in the process of compliance. Nevertheless, we did not find a clear pattern for the accounting variations. IFRS implementation conditioned the measure made to the performance and the financial position of the business companies in Portugal.

Keywords: Accounting Harmonization, International Financial Reporting Standards

Suggested Citation:

Silva, Francisco J. F. and Couto, Gualter, Measuring the Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Firm Reporting: The Case of Portugal (January 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=969972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.969972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R Abel
A Comparative Simulation of German and United States Accounting Principles
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 1969
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , Pincus , M
Domestic Accounting Standards, International Accounting Standards, and the Predictability of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
G Benau , Z Grima
Características de las Empresas Europeas que Aplican las Normas del IASB: Evidencia Empírica de Cara al Debate Regulador en la Nueva Fase de Armonización Contable , p. 75 - 110 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Beresford
Internationalization of Accounting Standards. Accounting Horizons , p. 99 - 107 Posted: 1990
Load more
1 Citations
Waymond Rodgers , Thomas J. Housel
Measures for organizations engaged in a knowledge economy
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 341 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,779
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,287
RANK
22,361
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies