Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Related Party Sales by Listed Chinese Firms on Earnings Informativeness and Earnings Forecasts

International Journal of Business, Vol. 17, No. 3, 2012

Posted: 20 Mar 2007 Last revised: 4 Jun 2013

Jiwei Wang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Hongqi Yuan

Fudan University - School of Management

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Using a random sample of 140 of China’s listed firms, we show an adverse impact of related party (RP) sales of goods and services on the usefulness of accounting earnings to investors and on the quality of earnings forecasts by financial analysts. Consistent with the contention that RP sales may violate the arm’s-length assumption of regular transactions and consequently impair the representational faithfulness and verifiability of accounting data, we find that earnings of firms engaged in RP sales are at least 33% less informative after controlling for factors known to affect earnings informativeness. We also find that financial analysts are overly credulous in their acceptance of earnings numbers that are contaminated by unreliable RP sales, and provide less accurate and more optimistic earnings forecasts for firms with more RP sales. Overall, our results provide strong empirical evidence on the negative impact of RP transactions on the usefulness of accounting earnings data used by investors and by financial analysts.

Keywords: Related Party Sales, Earning Informativeness, Earnings Quality, Earnings Forecasts

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G24

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Jiwei and Yuan, Hongqi, The Impact of Related Party Sales by Listed Chinese Firms on Earnings Informativeness and Earnings Forecasts (2012). International Journal of Business, Vol. 17, No. 3, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=970873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.970873
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
961
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies