Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Voluntary Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Loan Contracting Around the World

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2007 Last revised: 20 Oct 2010

Jeong-Bon Kim

Simon Fraser University

Judy S.L. Tsui

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Cheong H. Yi

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 2010

Abstract

Using a sample of non-U.S. borrowers from 40 countries during 1997–2005, this paper investigates the effect of the voluntary adoption of International FinancialReporting Standards (IFRS) on price and non-price terms of loan contracts and loan ownership structure in the international loan market. Our results reveal the following. First, banks charge lower loan rates to IFRS adopters than to non-adopters. The difference in loan rates in excess of a benchmark rate between the two groups is about 20 basis points for all loans and nearly 31 basis points for London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)-based loans. Second, banks impose more favorable non-price terms on IFRS adopters, particularly less restrictive covenants. We also provide evidence suggesting that banks are more willing to extend credit to IFRS adopters through larger loans and longer maturities. Finally, IFRS adopters attract significantly more foreign lenders participating in loan syndicates than non-adopters.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), loan contracting, loan spread, collateral, debt covenant, syndicate structure, foreign banks

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M47, G21

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jeong-Bon and Tsui, Judy S.L. and Yi, Cheong H., The Voluntary Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and Loan Contracting Around the World (October 2010). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=970850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Albert , J A Anderson
On the existence of maximum likelihood estimates in logistic regression models
Biometrika , volume 71 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 1984
Crossref
P D Allison
Logistic Regression Using SAS: Theory and Practice Posted: 1999
H Ashbaugh , M Pincus
Domestic accounting standards, international accounting standards, and the predictability of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 417 - 434 Posted: 2001
Crossref
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
926
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,887
RANK
58,176
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Large-Sample Evidence on the Debt Covenant Hypothesis

By Ilia D. Dichev and Douglas J. Skinner

How Does Financing Impact Investment? The Role of Debt Covenants

By Sudheer Chava and Michael R. Roberts

Syndicated Loans

By Steven A. Dennis and Donald J. Mullineaux

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies