Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Country Effects and Sector Effects on the Harmonization of Accounting Policy Choice

Abacus

43 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2011

Aziz Jaafar

Bangor Business School

Stuart McLeay

University of Sussex; The University of Sydney

Abstract

In evaluating accounting harmonization in Europe, prior research has relied almost exclusively on index-based measures of the convergence of financial reporting practices. However, this approach offers little explanation of the impact of the harmonization process as the adoption of different accounting methods is attributable not only to the rules and regulations in force in the jurisdictions where sampled firms are domiciled but also to the specific characteristics of the firms that are selected for analysis. The study addresses this issue in order to determine the extent to which accounting harmonization took place in Europe prior to the recent switch to IFRS, by presuming that accounting will be harmonized not when there is uniformity but when 'all firms operating in similar circumstances adopt the same accounting treatment for similar transactions regardless of their domicile'. The paper sets out the results of a statistical analysis of financial reporting harmonization obtained by employing a logistic regression to predict the odds of using alternative accounting methods. The policies studied concern inventory, depreciation and goodwill. The empirical results suggest that, after allowing for international exposure and firm size, country effects continue to be far greater than sector effects, which is inconsistent with harmonized accounting.

Keywords: Harmonization measurement, Country effects, Sector effects

Suggested Citation:

Jaafar, Aziz and McLeay, Stuart, Country Effects and Sector Effects on the Harmonization of Accounting Policy Choice. Abacus, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=976677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.976677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
The Effect of LIFO-Switching and Firm Ownership on Executives Pay
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , issue 3 Posted: 1985
Crossref
A Adhikari , E N Emenyonu
Accounting for Business Combinations and Foreign Currency Translation
Advances in International Accounting , volume 10 Posted: 1997
S Aisbitt
Measurement of Harmony of Financial Reporting Within and Between Countries: The Case of the Nordic Countries
The European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M J Ali
Synthesis of Empirical Research on International Accounting Harmonization and Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 24 Posted: 2005
Load more
2 Citations
Stefano Coda , Christopher Hossfeld , Martin Schmidt
Drivers of IAS 36 Disclosure Quality – Evidence from European Listed Firms
ESCP Business School Research Paper · 57 Pages · Posted: 28 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 144
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robin Litjens , Bart Kamp , Martijn Hengeveld
IFRS Covert Options: Evidence from Spac Reporting
YBARE-D-24-00479 · 29 Pages · Posted: 12 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 70
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
354
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,551
RANK
193,355
2 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies