Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of Applying International Accounting Standards (IAS) to the Financial Statements of Greek Companies

30th Annual Congress of European Accounting Association, Lisbon-Portugal, April 25-27, 2007

26 Pages Posted: 10 May 2007 Last revised: 25 Sep 2012

Athanasios Bellas

University of Patras

Kanellos Toudas

National and Kapodistrian University of Athens

Konstantinos Papadatos

University of Patras - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: 08 01, 2007

Abstract

The aim of the present study is to investigate the repercussions of the much-discussed accounting changeover from the Greek Accounting Standards (GAS) to the International Accounting Standards (IAS) in relation to the published financial statements of Greek companies. From an analytical point of view, this study seeks to identify the repercussions of applying the IAS to various accounting magnitudes and indicators as well as how capable accounting information is in explaining the share prices (value relevance) for the 2004 administrative year, one year before the mandatory application of the new standards. In the present analysis the accounting information examined concerns Book Value of equity and Net Income after Taxes. The motivating factor for the realization of this analysis involves the different philosophy and orientation regarding the two accounting systems in question. Specifically, the accounting standards in Greece from 1980 and onwards followed the French-German model, which had as its main objective the protection of creditors and tax transparency, applying exclusively the method of historical cost. In contrast, being similar to American models (i.e. US GAAP), the IAS focus mainly on the protection of investors and introduce the principle of fair value. The results of the analysis show that tangible assets, fixed assets, and total liabilities record considerably higher prices under the new accounting standards. Furthermore, the application of the IAS shows notable differences of the values of balance-sheet magnitudes in comparison to those under the GAS for the majority of companies examined. Finally, it was recorded that, in opposition to the net income after taxes, the book value appears to play a more significant role under the new standards, compared to that under the GAS. There is also evidence that the adjustments of GAS to net income improve incremental value relevance, while the adjustments of the GAS to book value certainly do not improve it.

Keywords: International Accounting Standards (IAS), Greek Accounting Standards (GAS), Value relevance, Incremental value relevance, Accounting Standards, Fair value

Suggested Citation:

Bellas, Athanasios and Toudas, Kanellos and Papadatos, Konstantinos, The Consequences of Applying International Accounting Standards (IAS) to the Financial Statements of Greek Companies (08 01, 2007). 30th Annual Congress of European Accounting Association, Lisbon-Portugal, April 25-27, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=985048
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
BLUE STAR FERRIES 30
F G
EUROPE 37. ∆ΕΛΤΑ PROJECT 66
Fashion , Box Ελλασ Α.Ε 39
Crossref
Β Folli-Follie Α
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
686
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,279
RANK
86,861
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies