Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Discount Rate Should Bankruptcy Judges Use? Estimates from Canadian Reorganization Data

International Review of Law and Economics, Forthcoming

16 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2008

Fabrice Barthélémy

University of Cergy-Pontoise - THEMA

Timothy C. G. Fisher

University of Sydney, School of Economics

Jocelyn Martel

ESSEC Business School

Date Written: September 30, 2008

Abstract

Using data from financial reorganization plans filed by insolvent Canadian firms, we estimate the discount rate implicit in the unsecured creditor's reorganization decision. Using (HARA) utility functions, we find the implicit monthly discount rate of creditors to be 4.9%, which corresponds to an annual discount rate of 77%. This is 7 to 10 times more than the discount rates used in previous empirical studies of reorganization. The discount rate estimates are robust to varying degree of risk aversion and market to book value ratio of assets.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Reorganization, Discount Rate

JEL Classification: G33, G38

Suggested Citation:

Barthélémy, Fabrice and Fisher, Timothy C. G. and Martel, Jocelyn, What Discount Rate Should Bankruptcy Judges Use? Estimates from Canadian Reorganization Data (September 30, 2008). International Review of Law and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=988360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
F Barthélémy , T Fisher , J Martel
Estimates of Creditors' Discount Rate in Court-Supervised Reorganization Decisions Posted: 2004
M Dreyfus , W Viscusi
Rates of Time Preference and Consumer Valuations of Automobile Safety and Fuel Efficiency
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 105 Posted: 1990
Crossref
T Eisenberg , S Tagashira
Should We Abolish Chapter 11? The Evidence From Japan
Journal of Legal Studies , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 157 Posted: 1994
Crossref
T Fisher , J Martel
Should We Abolish Chapter 11 ? Evidence from Canada
Journal of Legal Studies , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 233 - 257 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,589
RANK
653,956
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Data Collection & Data Estimation Methodology eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Debt Enforcement Around the World

By Simeon Djankov, Oliver Hart, ...

Debt Enforcement Around the World

By Simeon Djankov, Oliver Hart, ...

The Costs of Bankruptcy

By Arturo Bris, Ivo Welch, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies