Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm-Level Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets: A Case Study of India

ECGI - Law Working Paper 119/2009

2nd Annual Conference on Empirical Legal Studies Paper

U of Michigan Law & Economics, Olin Working Paper 08-011

U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 87

Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 09-14

50 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2008 Last revised: 6 Jul 2009

Bala N. Balasubramanian

Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad; Formerly IIM Bangalore - Centre for Corporate Governance and Citizensip; Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad

Bernard S. Black

Northwestern University - Pritzker School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Vikramaditya S. Khanna

University of Michigan Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 2, 2008

Abstract

We provide an overview of Indian corporate governance practices, based primarily on responses to a 2006 survey of 370 Indian public companies. Compliance with legal norms is reasonably high in most areas, but not complete. We identify areas where Indian corporate governance is relatively strong and weak, and areas where regulation might usefully be either relaxed or strengthened. On the whole, Indian corporate governance rules appear appropriate for larger companies, but could use some strengthening in the area of related party transactions, and some relaxation for smaller companies. Executive compensation is low by U.S. standards and is not currently a problem area.

We also examine whether there is a cross-sectional relationship between measures of governance and measures of firm performance and find evidence of a positive relationship for an overall governance index and for an index covering shareholder rights. We find an overall association, which is stronger for more profitable firms and firms with stronger growth opportunities. A subindex for shareholder rights is individually significant, but subindices for board structure (board independence and committee structure), disclosure, board procedure, and related party transactions are not significant. The non-results for board structure contrast to other recent studies, and suggest that India's legal requirements are sufficiently strict so that overcompliance does not produce valuation gains.

Keywords: India, securities law, corporate governance, Clause 49

JEL Classification: G15, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Balasubramanian, Bala N. and Black, Bernard S. and Khanna, Vikramaditya S., Firm-Level Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets: A Case Study of India (July 2, 2008). ECGI - Law Working Paper 119/2009, 2nd Annual Conference on Empirical Legal Studies Paper, U of Michigan Law & Economics, Olin Working Paper 08-011, U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 87, Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 09-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=992529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.992529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Reena Aggarwal , Isil Erel , Rene M. Stulz , Rohan G. Williamson
Do U.S. Firms Have the Best Corporate Governance? A Cross-Country Examination of the Relation between Corporate Governance and Shareholder Wealth
Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2006-03-006, ECGI - Finance Working Paper No. 145/2007, Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2006-25 Pages: 41 Posted: 2 Jan 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Reena Aggarwal , Leora Klapper , Peter D Wysocki
Portfolio Preferences of Foreign Institutional Investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 29 , p. 2919 - 2946 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T C A Anant , Omkar Goswami
Getting Everything Wrong: India's Policies Regarding 'Sick' Firms Posted: 1995
Arcot , R Sridhar , Valentina Bruno , Giulia
One Size Does Not Fit All, After All: Evidence from Corporate Governance Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
22 Citations
Tariq Tawfeeq Yousif Alabdullah
Corporate governance from the perspective of the past and the present and the need to fill an international GAP
Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets and Institutions , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 96 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Nasha Ananchotikul , Roy R. P. Kouwenberg , Visit Phunnarungsi
Do Firms Decouple Corporate Governance Policy and Practice?
40 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2008 · Last revised: 27 Jun 2010 · Downloads: 262
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard Bozec , Yves Bozec
The Use of Governance Indexes in the Governance-Performance Relationship Literature: International Evidence
Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences / Revue Canadienne des Sciences de l'Administration , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 79 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Santosh Pande , Valeed Ahmad Ansari
Effectiveness of Independent Directors on the Boards of Indian Listed Companies – Are the Recent Regulatory Changes Enough?
23 Pages · Posted: 8 Nov 2013 · Downloads: 545
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,449
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,492
RANK
5,370
22 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies