Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Firm Performance Reduce Managerial Opportunism? The Impact of Performance-Based Compensation and Firm Performance on Illegal Accounting Restatement.

In Kolb. R. W. (ed) The Ethics of Executive Compensation. Wiley-Blackwell. pp. 32-54. (2006)

23 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2018

Jegoo Lee

University of Rhode Island - College of Business Administration

Byung Hee Lee

Hanyang University - School of Business

Sandra Waddock

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Samuel B. Graves

Boston College - Department of Operations & Strategic Management

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

In this study, we present a timely research with regard to managers' opportunistic behaviors - financial statement manipulation. We inquire as to whether the performance-based compensation (PBS) granted to managers influences managerial opportunism. We further examine whether firm performance reduces managerial opportunism. Specifically, we investigate the moderating roles of firm performance - corporate responsibility (CR) and corporate financial performance (CFP) on managers' opportunistic behaviors. For empirical testing, we used three databases, KLD social data, ExecuComp data, and CompuStat data, and employed hierarchical binomial logistic regression analysis. As hypothesized, PBC has a positive and significant effect on managers' opportunistic behaviors, measured as accounting restatements. However, better CR does not reduce managers' propensity for accounting restatements. CFP has mixed effects. The study's results suggest the need to develop a deeper understanding of the relationship of firm performance to opportunistic behaviors.

Keywords: Performance-based compensation, Corporate responsibility, Accounting restatement

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Jegoo and Lee, Byung Hee and Waddock, Sandra and Graves, Samuel B., Does Firm Performance Reduce Managerial Opportunism? The Impact of Performance-Based Compensation and Firm Performance on Illegal Accounting Restatement. (2006). In Kolb. R. W. (ed) The Ethics of Executive Compensation. Wiley-Blackwell. pp. 32-54. (2006), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1065681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1065681
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
E Abrahamson , C Park
Concealment of negative organization outcomes: an agency theory perspective
Academy of ManagementJournal , volume 37 , issue 5 , p. 1302 - 1334 Posted: 1994
Crossref
B R Agle , R K Mitchell , J A Sonnenfeld
Who matters to CEOs? An investigation of stakeholder attributes and salience, corporate performance and CEO values
Academy of ManagemmtJournal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
Crossref
T L Arnburgey , A S Miner
Strategic momentum: the effects of repetitive, positional, and contextual momentum on merger activity
Strategic Management Journal , volume 13 , issue 5 , p. 335 - 348 Posted: 1992
Crossref
T Baker , D Collins , A Reitenga
Stock option compensation and earnings management incentives. Working paper Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,435
RANK
798,750
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies