Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Empirical Relationship between Stock Prices and Long-Term Earnings

Journal of Investing, Vol. 18, No. 3, 2009

https://doi.org/10.3905/JOI.2009.18.3.049

Posted: 22 May 2019 Last revised: 4 Apr 2010

Hong Qian

Oakland University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Joseph H. Callaghan

Oakland University

Mohinder Parkash

Oakland University

Austin Murphy

Oakland University - School of Business Administration

Date Written: November 8, 2008

Abstract

This research shows stock prices to be a function of long-term earnings forecasts, as is consistent with financial theory. Stock prices reflect not only the average of the IBES long-term earnings predictions but also some superior forecasting power beyond that aggregated average prediction.

Suggested Citation:

Qian, Hong and Callaghan, Joseph H. and Parkash, Mohinder and Murphy, J. Austin, The Empirical Relationship between Stock Prices and Long-Term Earnings (November 8, 2008). Journal of Investing, Vol. 18, No. 3, 2009, https://doi.org/10.3905/JOI.2009.18.3.049, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1297949
 Not Available for Download
16 References
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Brown
Analyst Forecasting Errors and Their Implications for Security Analysis: An Alternative Perspective
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 52 , p. 40 - 47 Posted: 1996-02
Crossref
P Brown , G Foster , E Noreen
Security Analyst Multi-Year Earnings Forecasts and the Capital Market
J Callaghan , A Murphy
An Empirical Evaluation of the Forecasting Power of Fundamental Stock Analysis Models Over Time
Journal of Research in Finance , volume 2 , p. 138 - 157 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,611
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies