Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance and Characteristics of Actively Managed Institutional Equity Mutual Funds

Journal of Investing, Vol. 18, No. 1, pp. 27-44, Spring 2009

https://doi.org/10.3905/JOI.2009.18.1.027

Posted: 22 May 2019 Last revised: 15 Jan 2015

H. Kent Baker

American University - Kogod School of Business

John A. Haslem

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business; University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

David M. Smith

State University of New York at Albany - School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 3, 2009

Abstract

In this study, we provide extensive evidence on the performance characteristics of 1,118 U.S. domestic, actively managed institutional equity mutual funds. We measure performance using such measures as three-year Sharpe ratios, Jensen's alphas, and Miller's active alphas as well as annualized Russell Index-adjusted returns over multiple periods (1, 3, 5, 10, 15 years). We relate performance to fund attributes including expense ratio class, net assets, 12b-1 fees dummy, turnover ratio, beta, cash, and dividend yield.

We analyze the disparity of expense ratios of actively managed institutional equity mutual funds and find that expense ratios differ widely among Morningstar categories. Consistent with previous studies involving actively managed retail equity mutual funds, we find strong evidence that the average actively managed institutional equity mutual fund cannot beat a representative benchmark after expenses.

We also examine fund characteristics partitioned by expense ratio class and conduct univariate tests. We obtain mixed results concerning whether funds with low expense ratios outperform those with higher expense ratios. Our findings are sensitive to the performance measure and time period used. Compared with mutual funds in high and very high expense ratio classes, our results show that funds in low or very low expense ratio classes have significantly lower deferred loads, 12b-1 fees, management fees, and portfolio turnover. In addition, lower expense ratio funds are larger and have managers with a longer tenure. This evidence suggests that expense-conscious institutional investors should look carefully at these characteristics before investing.

Our study provides new evidence that supports links between their performance of actively managed institutional equity mutual funds and fund attributes. Based on our multiple-regression regression, we find a consistently negative sign in the relation between expense ratio class and performance but statistical significance only for Miller's active alpha performance measure. There is strong support suggesting that larger institutional equity funds tend to outperform smaller institutional equity funds, which may reflect greater monitoring. This finding implies that institutional investors should focus on larger mutual funds as a means of enhancing their portfolio returns. We show that the effect of an institutional equity fund's holding cash on its performance is consistently positive and significant in six of the seven regressions. Our evidence shows statistically significant but mixed results for turnover, beta, and dividend yield. In addition, our results indicate no significant relation between performance and the existence of 12b-1 fees.

Finally, we compare our results with the extant mutual fund literature in order to link any potential difference in findings to the characteristics of institutional funds. Our analysis reveals that expenses have a weaker relation with fund performance for institutional funds than retail funds because institutional funds, on average, have substantially lower expenses. However, fund asset size appears to be a more important indicator of fund performance for institutional funds than for retail funds. Finally, for both institutional funds and retail funds, a positive relation exists between a higher percentage of cash held and better fund performance. These findings warrant further investigation.

Keywords: performance characteristics, actively managed institutional mutual funds, expense ratio class, Miller active alpha, 12b-1 fees, deferred loads, management fees, portfolio turnover, institutional investors, beta, dividend yield

JEL Classification: G20, G23, G28

Suggested Citation:

Baker, H. Kent and Haslem, John A. and Haslem, John A. and Smith, David McNeil, Performance and Characteristics of Actively Managed Institutional Equity Mutual Funds (April 3, 2009). Journal of Investing, Vol. 18, No. 1, pp. 27-44, Spring 2009, https://doi.org/10.3905/JOI.2009.18.1.027, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1352702
 Not Available for Download
30 References
Mutual Funds
Journal of Finance , volume 51 , p. 783 - 810 Posted: 1996
John A. Haslem , John A. Haslem
Mutual Funds: Risk and Performance Analysis for Decision Making
Pages: 14 Posted: 21 Mar 2012 Last revised: 15 Aug 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John A Haslem , H Kent Baker , David M Smith
Identification and Performance of Equity Mutual Funds with High Management Fees and Expense Ratios
Journal of Investing , volume 16 , p. 32 - 51 Posted: 2007
Crossref
John A. Haslem , John A. Haslem , H. Kent Baker , David McNeil Smith
Performance and Characteristics of Actively Managed Retail Equity Mutual Funds with Diverse Expense Ratios
Pages: 30 Posted: 12 May 2008 Last revised: 2 Oct 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,333
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Identification and Performance of Equity Mutual Funds with High Management Fees and Expense Ratios

By John A. Haslem, H. Kent Baker, ...

Identification and Performance of Equity Mutual Funds with High Management Fees and Expense Ratios

By John A. Haslem, H. Kent Baker, ...

Are Retail S&P 500 Index Funds a Financial Commodity? Insights for Investors

By John A. Haslem, H. Kent Baker, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies