Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Conceptual Model for External Auditor Evaluation of the Internal Audit Fuction Using Belief Fuctions

Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 27 No. 2 (Summer 2010) pp. 537–575.

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2022

Vikram Desai

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Rajendra P. Srivastava

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Robin W. Roberts

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Date Written: ,

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to advance research in internal audit (IA) evaluation by devel-oping an IA assessment model that considers interrelationships among specific factors used by ex-ternal auditors to evaluate the strength of the IA function. The model is based on three factors iden-tified by auditing standards and by prior academic research: Competence, Work Performance, and Objectivity (SAS 65 1991; Messier and Schneider 1988; Krishnamoorthy 2002; PCAOB 2007). We develop an analytical expression of the model using the belief function framework. By using this framework we overcome limitations of prior research regarding the modelling of interrelation-ships among factors and regarding difficulties in application. The results of our analysis revealed that modelling the “And” relationship is essential for assessing the strength of the IA function. As far as interrelationships are concerned, the analysis showed that when the three factors have a strong or a perfect relationship, the strength of the IA function remains high even if there is positive or negative evidence about one of the factors. This result holds as long as there are high levels of beliefs about the other two factors. Further, we demonstrate how the quality of corporate govern-ance affects the evaluation of the IA function and how a cost benefit analysis can be applied to this framework to help determine the amount of external audit work to be carried out for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) standards. Our analysis revealed that the extent of external audit work to be carried out by the external auditor depends on the strength of the IA function and the amount of litigation and regulatory costs likely to be faced by the external auditor.

Suggested Citation:

Desai, Vikram and Srivastava, Rajendra Prasad and Roberts, Robin W., A Conceptual Model for External Auditor Evaluation of the Internal Audit Fuction Using Belief Fuctions (,). Contemporary Accounting Research, Vol. 27 No. 2 (Summer 2010) pp. 537–575., Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1476431 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1476431
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
R Abdel-Khalik , D Snowball , J H Wragge
The effects of certain internal audit variables on the planning of external audit programs
The Accounting Review , p. 215 - 227 Posted: 1983-04
A D Akresh , J K Loebbecke , W R Scott , A R Abdel-Khalik , Ira Solomon
Audit approaches and techniques
Research Opportunities in Auditing: The Second Decade , p. 13 - 55 Posted: 1988
The auditor's consideration of the internal audit function in an audit of financial Statements
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 65 Posted: 1991
Statements on Auditing Standards Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,119
RANK
206,808
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies