Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Executive Compensation a Substitute Governance Mechanism to Debt Financing and Leasing?

Applied Economics, Vol. 48, No. 14, 2016, pp.1293-1302

42 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2017 Last revised: 14 Jun 2017

Marizah Minhat

Edinburgh Napier University; Edinburgh Napier University

Nazam Dzolkarnaini

University of Salford - Salford Business School

Date Written: September 23, 2015

Abstract

This study examines whether and how CEO equity incentives relate to financing choices (i.e., debt and leases). Using manually collected CEO compensation and lease data for a sample of large UK firms, we found evidence of a negative relationship between CEO equity incentives and firm leverage. We also found that CEO equity incentives and leases are negatively related. The results are consistent with the theory introduced in this study on the substitutability of executive compensation and firm’s debt/lease financing. Our findings represent fresh empirical evidence and renewed interpretation regarding the relationship between executive equity-based incentives and firm’s financing choices. The substitutability theory we introduced here suggests that firms with greater use of debt and/or leases will implement less equity-based compensation in mitigating the agency cost of equity.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, CEO Pay, CEO Incentives, Capital Structure, Debt, Leasing, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G32, G34, J33, M52

Suggested Citation:

Minhat, Marizah and Minhat, Marizah and Dzolkarnaini, Nazam, Is Executive Compensation a Substitute Governance Mechanism to Debt Financing and Leasing? (September 23, 2015). Applied Economics, Vol. 48, No. 14, 2016, pp.1293-1302, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1650298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M Adams , P Hardwick
Determinants of the leasing decision in United Kingdom listed companies
Applied Financial Economics , volume 8 , p. 487 - 494 Posted: 1998
Crossref
T Adam , V K Goyal
The investment opportunity set and its proxy variables
Journal of Financial Research , volume 31 , p. 41 - 63 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Adedeji , R C Stapleton
Leases, debt and taxable capacity
Applied Financial Economics , volume 6 , p. 71 - 83 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Accounting for leases and hire purchase contracts. Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No. 21
ASC Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,633
RANK
228,376
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies