Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Video: Pioneers in Finance: An Interview with Michael C. Jensen - Part 1 Video 1

Journal of Applied Finance, No. 2, 2010

Barbados Group Working Paper No. 10-12

Harvard Business School NOM Unit Working Paper No. 11-045

8 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2020 Last revised: 1 Oct 2012

Michael C. Jensen (Deceased)

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); SSRN; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit

Ralph A. Walkling

Drexel University - Lebow College of Business

Date Written: December 20, 2011

Abstract

This interview is Part 1 Video 2 of a two-part series (contained in 4 videos) in which Professor Ralph Walkling, the Stratakis Chair in Corporate Governance and Executive Director of the Center for Corporate Governance at Drexel University, interviews Professor Michael C. Jensen, Jesse Isidor Straus Professor of Business Administration, Emeritus, of the Harvard Business School, on topics ranging from his early work to current research.

The transcript covers what led to his agency theory and corporate governance work, and the resistance he experienced in getting this early work published. Additionally, Professor Jensen reflects on the evolution in the market for corporate control over the past 20 years and discusses topical issues regarding the financial crisis, boards of directors, governance, and compensation.

Links to all 4 of the videos follow:

Part (1) Video (1) PDF file of the Transcript of the first half of the full interview is available here.

Part (1) Video (2)

Part (2) Video (3) PDF file of the Transcript of the second half of the full interview is available here.

Part (2) Video (4). .




Keywords: Agency Theory, Market for Corporate Control, Private Equity

JEL Classification: A13, D74, G14, G30, L21, M10

Suggested Citation:

Jensen (Deceased), Michael C. and Walkling, Ralph August, Video: Pioneers in Finance: An Interview with Michael C. Jensen - Part 1 Video 1 (December 20, 2011). Journal of Applied Finance, No. 2, 2010, Barbados Group Working Paper No. 10-12, Harvard Business School NOM Unit Working Paper No. 11-045, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1699862 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1699862
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
658
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,638
RANK
91,652
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Negotiation, Organizations & Markets Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Fraud and Managers' Behavior: Evidence from the Press

By Jeffrey R. Cohen, Yuan Ding, ...

Bridging the Audit Expectation Gap: The Perception of ICAN Members

By Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu

A Business Ethics Perspective on Sarbanes Oxley and the Organizational Sentencing Guidelines

By David Hess

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies