Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Severance Agreements and the Cost of Debt

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 20 May 2017 Last revised: 23 Oct 2018

Sattar Mansi

Virginia Tech

John K. Wald

University of Texas at San Antonio

Andrew (Jianzhong) Zhang

University of Nevada, Las Vegas - Department of Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 26, 2016

Abstract

Upon examining the language used in recent SEC filings, we find that severance agreements are often paid whether or not the CEO leaves the firm due to a change in control. We hypothesize that since severance agreements compensate CEOs in the event of termination, CEOs with these agreements will have an incentive to increase firm risk and decrease effort. Consistent with this hypothesis, we document a significant positive relation between the use of severance agreements and the cost of debt (10% higher yield spreads for firms with severance agreements). The results hold after controlling for the probability of takeover, the probability of CEO turnover, and whether the firm has investment or non-investment grade debt. These results can be explained by an increase in firm risk and a higher likelihood of CEO turnover associated with severance agreements. Overall, the evidence suggests that the effects of severance agreements extend beyond takeovers, and that these additional implications are primarily negative for the firm and for debt holders in particular.

Keywords: Severance agreements, cost of debt, takeover probability, firm risk, CEO turnover

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Mansi, Sattar and Wald, John K. and Zhang, Andrew (Jianzhong), Severance Agreements and the Cost of Debt (July 26, 2016). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2228300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2228300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
R Lambert , D Larcker
Golden parachutes, executive decision-making, and shareholder wealth
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 7 , p. 179 - 203 Posted: 1985
Crossref
A Low
Managerial risk-taking behavior and equity-based compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , p. 470 - 490 Posted: 2009
Crossref
T Lys , T Rusticus , E Sletten
Are large CEOs severance packages justified? The underlying factors of CEO severance Posted: 2007
J Machlin , H Choe , J Miles
The effects of golden parachutes on takeover activity
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 36 , p. 861 - 876 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,976
RANK
189,110
5 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies