Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tournament Incentives and Firm Innovation

Review of Finance, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2016 Last revised: 30 Sep 2016

Carl Hsin-han Shen

Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Hao Zhang

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: September 29, 2016

Abstract

This study analyzes how promotion-based tournament incentives for non-CEO senior executives affect corporate innovation. We measure tournament incentives using the pay gap between a CEO and the next layer of senior executives. We find that tournament incentives are positively related to innovative efficiency, as measured by the number of patents and patent citations generated per million dollars of R&D expense. Our main finding holds in an instrumental-variable analysis and regressions using alternative innovation measures, including patent generality and originality indices and stock market reactions to patent grants. Consistent with the argument that the tournament incentive is stronger when a succession contest is more likely to occur, the positive relation between tournament incentives and innovative efficiency is found to be particularly pronounced during the period prior to CEO turnovers, especially when the succeeding CEO is promoted from within the firm and when senior managers expect a high probability of CEO replacement. Overall, our findings suggest that tournament incentives enhance corporate innovation performance.

Keywords: Executive Compensation; Rank-Order Tournament; Pay Gap; Pay Disparity; Risk Taking; Innovative Efficiency; Patents; Citations

JEL Classification: G31; G32; G34; J33; O31

Suggested Citation:

Shen, Carl Hsin-han and Zhang, Hao, Tournament Incentives and Firm Innovation (September 29, 2016). Review of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2281663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
123 References
V Acharya , K Subramanian
Bankruptcy codes and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 4949 - 4988 Posted: 2009
Crossref
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Almeida , P.-H Hsu , D Li
When less is more: Financial constraints and innovative efficiency Posted: 2013
R Anderson , Reeb D
Board composition: balancing family influence in S&P 500 firms
Administrative Sciences Quarterly , volume 49 , p. 209 - 237 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
564
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,204
RANK
111,716
5 Citations
123 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies