Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraud, Market Reaction, and Role of Institutional Investors in Chinese Listed Firms

https://doi.org/10.3905/jpm.2015.41.5.092

Posted: 20 May 2019 Last revised: 26 Mar 2014

Reena Aggarwal

Georgetown University - Robert Emmett McDonough School of Business ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

May Hu

Deakin University

Jingjing Yang

Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

Date Written: March 25, 2014

Abstract

We examine the extent and type of financial fraud committed by listed firms in China, stock market reaction to the detection and announcement of fraud, the characteristics of firms committing fraud, and the association between institutional ownership and financial fraud. One of our objectives is to study the monitoring role of different types of institutional investors, such as mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies. Using fraud data from the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission between 2001 and 2011, we find wide occurrences of fraud and a strong negative market reaction on the announcement date, particularly in cases of serious fraud. Fraud is more likely to take place at firms that have a smaller proportion of independent directors and at poorly performing firms. We find firms with higher mutual fund ownership subsequently have fewer incidences of fraud. We do not find any association between ownership by grey financial institutions, such as insurance companies and pension funds that are likely to have business ties with firms, and future corporate fraud. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that ownership by independent

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Fraud, Institutional Investors, China

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Aggarwal, Reena and Hu, May and Yang, Jingjing, Fraud, Market Reaction, and Role of Institutional Investors in Chinese Listed Firms (March 25, 2014). https://doi.org/10.3905/jpm.2015.41.5.092, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2289460 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2289460
 Not Available for Download
21 References
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , J M Karpoff
Management Turnover and Governance Changes Following the Revelation of Fraud
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 42 , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Eril , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does Governance Travel Around the World? Evidence From Institutional Investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Aggarwal , P Saffi , J Sturgess
The Role of Institutional Investors in Voting: Evidence from the Securities Lending Market Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Wenfeng Wu , Sofia A. Johan , Oliver M. Rui
Institutional Investors, Political Connections, and the Incidence of Regulatory Enforcement Against Corporate Fraud
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 134 , issue 4 , p. 709 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,044
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance and Shareholder Initiatives: Empirical Evidence

By Jonathan M. Karpoff, Paul H. Malatesta, ...

Shareholder Passivity Reexamined

By Bernard S. Black

The Impact of Shareholder Activism on Target Companies: A Survey of Empirical Findings

By Jonathan M. Karpoff

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies