Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cultural Relativism in Earnings Management

15 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2022

Rabeb Riahi

University of Gabès; GEF2A Lab

Abdelwahed Omri

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 20, 2013

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the possible impact of value systems on earnings management in France, Tunisia and Canada. Cultural values include power distance, uncertainty avoidance, individualism, masculinity and long-term orientation. The cross-cultural study uses the method of structural equations trough LISREL approach. The examination covers the period between 2003 and 2009. Findings show first of all, that ecological factors are able to determine cultural dimensions in the sample countries. Secondly, we found that all studied cultural dimensions are able to define national culture in the sample countries. Yet, results indicate that only three of cultural dimensions are significant in explaining differences in earnings management in the studied context. In fact earnings management seems to be positively related to uncertainty avoidance and negatively related to power distance and individualism.

Keywords: Accounting practices, Discretionary accruals, Cultural dimensions, Structural equations method

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Riahi, Rabeb and Omri, Abdelwahed, Cultural Relativism in Earnings Management (November 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2357344 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2357344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
M E Barth , J A Elliott , M W Finn
Market Rewards Associated with Patterns of Increasing Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 387 - 413 Posted: 1999
R F Baskerville
Hofstede Never Studied Culture. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 28 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2003
D Beckmann , L Menkhoff , M Suto
Does Culture Influence Asset Managers' Views and Behavior
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 67 , p. 624 - 643 Posted: 2008
A R Belkaoui
The Cultural Shaping of Accounting Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
519
RANK
702,914
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies