Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Corporate Governance Practices: An Analysis of Structural Relations

28 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2016 Last revised: 7 Jul 2016

Amaury José Rezende

University of São Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Flávia Dalmácio

University of Sao Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Maisa Ribeiro

University of Sao Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Date Written: February 4, 2014

Abstract

The aim of this study is to analyze the structural relations between strategy, environmental performance and disclosure, in view of the lack of research on these endogenous relations. To analyze these relations, an environmental governance proxy was developed for Brazilian companies, which consists of five dimensions. Hence, from an economic perspective, a trend is expected for companies to disclose more information and maintain an environmental governance structure, so as to avoid or reduce potential political costs. Using the structural equation technique, 573 Brazilian companies were analyzed. According to the results, the Brazilian companies’ mean compliance level with environmental governance practices is 49.2%. In addition, there is evidence of a positive association between the governance structure and the environmental management system (GSEM) and (1) environmental performance (EP) and (2) environmental disclosure level (DISC). In addition, the level of conflict of interests positively affects disclosure. The results demonstrate that the latent variables GSEM and EP exert a direct and indirect positive effect on DISC. In other words, companies with a more structured environmental management system have obtained better performance indicators and, consequently, are more encouraged to disseminate environmental information and reduce political costs.

Keywords: Environmental Governance, Structural Relations, Environmental disclosure, Environmental performance

Suggested Citation:

Rezende, Amaury José and Dalmácio, Flávia and Ribeiro, Maisa, Environmental Corporate Governance Practices: An Analysis of Structural Relations (February 4, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2390940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2390940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Análise Editorial
Análise Gestão Ambiental. Anuário Posted: 2010
Al-Tuwaijri , A Sulaiman , Theodore E Christensen , Hughes , K E Ii
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach Accounting
Organizations and Society , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G M J Álvarez , J J Burgos , L J J Céspedes
An analysis of environmental management, organizational context and performance of Spanish hotels
Omega, v , volume 29 , p. 457 - 471 Posted: 2001
L C Angell , R D Klassen
Integrating environmental issues into the mainstream: an agenda for research in operations management
Journal of Operations Management , issue 5 , p. 575 - 598 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,361
RANK
778,745
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies