Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Independent Boards and the Institutional Investors That Prefer Them: Drivers of Institutional Investor Heterogeneity in Governance Preferences

Schnatterly, K & Johnson, SG. 2014 Independent Boards and the Institutional Investors that Prefer Them: Drivers Of Institutional Investor Heterogeneity In Governance Preferences. Strat. Mgmt. J., 35: 1552–1563

Posted: 17 Nov 2018

Karen Schnatterly

University of Missouri-Columbia; Virginia Tech

Scott Johnson

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Department of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 4, 2014

Abstract

Institutional investors report that they prefer to invest in firms with greater board independence despite the fact that researchers have been unable to demonstrate a link between board independence and firm performance. We investigate whether differences among institutional investors affect these preferences. We find that trading strategies have some effect but that mutual funds — facing the strongest institutional pressures — have significantly stronger preferences for firms with greater board independence than do other types of institutional investors. This suggests that institutional investor preferences for independent boards are at least partially driven by institutional pressures rather than anticipated reductions in agency costs.

Keywords: Institutional investors, boards of directors

JEL Classification: G30, G20

Suggested Citation:

Schnatterly, Karen and Schnatterly, Karen and Johnson, Scott, Independent Boards and the Institutional Investors That Prefer Them: Drivers of Institutional Investor Heterogeneity in Governance Preferences (September 4, 2014). Schnatterly, K & Johnson, SG. 2014 Independent Boards and the Institutional Investors that Prefer Them: Drivers Of Institutional Investor Heterogeneity In Governance Preferences. Strat. Mgmt. J., 35: 1552–1563, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2491791
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
890
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies