Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Executive Turnover and Financial Misreporting: Evidence from Germany

58 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2016

Matthias Hoeltken

Handelshochschule Leipzig (HHL) - Department of Accounting & Auditing

Stephanie Jana

ESCP Business School Berlin

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: February 4, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates personal consequences for management executives in the context of financial misreporting exposed by German enforcement institutions. More specifically, we examine CEO and CFO turnover in the context of an error announcement. By doing so, we compare 103 firms that issued an error announcement between 2006 and 2013 with industry-and-size-matched control firms. First, we find notable differences in executive turnover for the five-year period including two years before and after the year of the error announcements. Second, we show that the likelihood for executive turnover is significantly associated with executive tenure, firm size, firm performance, and chairperson turnover. However, multivariate analysis does not provide similar evidence for financial misreporting. Third, our analysis of the error announcements’ characteristics indicates that the probability for executive turnover particularly increases for errors related to professional judgment and management report issues. That is, executives face personal consequences for non-appropriate use of its discretion.

Keywords: Enforcement, executive turnover, error announcement, regulation, Germany

JEL Classification: M12, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hoeltken, Matthias and Jana, Stephanie and Zülch, Henning, The Association between Executive Turnover and Financial Misreporting: Evidence from Germany (February 4, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2578377 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2578377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
C Leuz
Different approaches to corporate reporting regulation: How jurisdictions differ and why
Accounting and Business Research , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 229 - 256 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T Loy , S Steuer
Trust is a good thing, but enforcement is a better one? A summary of FREP's first ten years (2 nd part)
Zeitschrift für kapitalmarktorientierte Rechnungslegung , volume 15 , p. 485 - 489 Posted: 2015
K Murphy , J Zimmerman
Financial performance surrounding CEO turnover
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 16 , issue 1-3 , p. 273 - 315 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Z Palmrose , S Scholz
The Circumstances and Legal Consequences of Non-GAAP Reporting: Evidence from Restatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 139 - 180 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,016
RANK
287,617
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies