Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Contributions and the Auditor-Client Relationship

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting

66 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2024 Last revised: 26 Jan 2024

Frank Heflin

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Dana Wallace

University of Central Florida - School of Accounting

Date Written: January 24, 2024

Abstract

We investigate the impact of audit client political contributions on various audit attributes. We find that, despite having poorer accruals quality, clients with higher political contributions have fewer restatements, receive no more going concern qualified opinions, and receive fewer reported material weaknesses. Additionally, we find that auditors earn higher fees from and have longer tenure with their politically connected clients. Our evidence is indirect, but the totality of our results is most consistent with an economic bond between auditors and their politically connected clients, whereby clients are allowed more accounting discretion and receive fewer adverse audit outcomes, and the auditor charges a persistent risk premium. We conclude that client political connections likely influence audit outcomes because of either reduced scrutiny from regulators or direct influence on auditors. We extend a growing body of research on the consequences of corporate political connections.

Keywords: political contributions, accruals quality, restatements, internal control, audit fees

JEL Classification: D72, G30, G32, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Heflin, Frank and Wallace, Dana, Political Contributions and the Auditor-Client Relationship (January 24, 2024). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2594030 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2594030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
124 References
R Aggarwal , F Meschke , T Wang
Corporate political donations: investment or agency? Business and Politics , volume 14 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2012
A S Ahmed , S Duellman , M Grady
Political connections and the trade-off between real and accrual-based earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 2730 - 2757 Posted: 2022
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis, and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,088
RANK
297,230
1 Citations
124 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies