Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of Audit Committee Effectiveness and Risk Management: Evidence from Saudi Arabia

Accounting & Taxation, v. 7 (1) pp. 39-49, 2015

12 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Abdullah Mohammed Alzharani

Riyadh Technology College

Khaled Salmen Aljaaidi

Hadhramout University for Sciences and Technology

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This study examines the association between audit committee characteristics and the combination of risk management and audit committee activities by industrial Saudi listed firms. Since none of the sample firms has established a stand-alone risk management committee and the functions of monitoring and controlling risk activities are closer to the audit committee than board of directors, this study expects that audit committees with non-executive independent members, more members on the audit committee, financially expert audit committee members and diligence are more likely to combine the risk management and audit committee activities. The study utilizes a cross-sectional analysis of 102 firm-year observations during the 2007-2011 period. A pooled logistic regression analysis is used to estimate the associations proposed in the hypotheses. The study finds that only audit committee size is positively related to the combination of risk management and audit committee activities. This result suggests that the size of the audit committee do indeed proxy for its effectiveness in enhancing the quality of internal control and, thus, monitoring risk management activities. The result of this study contributes to the existing theory and empirical evidence of how the effectiveness of audit committee is related to monitoring and controlling risk management activities. This study offers policy-makers additional evidence to be used for setting up and/or enacting regulations in Saudi Arabia.

Keywords: Audit Committee Effectiveness, Risk Management, Saudi Arabia

JEL Classification: M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Alzharani, Abdullah Mohammed and Aljaaidi, Khaled Salmen, An Empirical Investigation of Audit Committee Effectiveness and Risk Management: Evidence from Saudi Arabia (2015). Accounting & Taxation, v. 7 (1) pp. 39-49, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2653865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson
Public Companies, Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
Fraudulent Financial Reporting , volume 8 , p. 19 - 36 Posted: 1987
M S Beasley , R Clune , D R Hermanson
Enterprise Risk Management: An Empirical Analysis of Factors Associated with the Extent of Implementation
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , p. 521 - 552 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Sanjai Bhagat , Bernard S. Black
The Non-Correlation between Board Independence and Long-Term Firm Performance
Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 185 Pages: 44 Posted: 3 Oct 1998
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
1 Citations
Hebatallah Badawy
Audit Committee Effectiveness and Corporate Sustainable Growth: The Case of Egypt
Alexandria Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 4, Issue 2, 2020 · 34 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 202
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
514
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,103
RANK
125,376
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies