Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Nature and Concept of Accountability: A Case Study of Three Entities in Fiji

Global Journal of Business Research, v. 9 (2) p. 65-74, 2015

10 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Ezaaz Hasan

University of the South Pacific - School of Accounting & Finance

Anjani Mala

Fiji National University (FNU)

Glen Finau

University of Tasmania, Tasmanian School of Business and Economics, Students; University of the South Pacific; University of Tasmania, Tasmanian School of Business and Economics, Students

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The notion of accountability is a vague concept. This is because the appropriateness of accountabilities depends on the context in which accountability is discharged to the recipient of information. The impetus for this study stems from a critical issue of whether discharging accountability to stakeholders by entities can be generalizable to all accountability structures and to understand how appropriately accountabilities are being rendered by entities in Fiji to their stakeholders. In light of this, our research method involves a case study of three entities in Fiji namely, Paradise Beverages (Fiji) Ltd, Home Finance Company Ltd (HFC) and Greenpeace Australia Pacific (GAP). Interviews were also conducted with three individuals from these three entities. The findings indicate that accountability is always context specific. Accountabilities towards stakeholders can be improved on but cannot be generalized to other accountability structures. This study contributes to our understanding of the vagueness of the nature of accountability and although our findings cannot be generalizable, other entities across the globe can understand that accountability can never be perfect for all of their stakeholder groups.

Keywords: Accountability, Appropriateness, Vagueness

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Ezaaz and Mala, Anjani and Finau, Glen, The Nature and Concept of Accountability: A Case Study of Three Entities in Fiji (2015). Global Journal of Business Research, v. 9 (2) p. 65-74, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,023
RANK
322,813
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies