Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Mandatory Corporate Governance: Evidence from an Emerging Market

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 9 (3) p. 105-114, 2015

10 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2016

Qasim M. Zureigat

Sulaiman AlRajhi University

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This study investigates whether listed companies in Jordan comply with mandatory governance rules and explores factors that affect the governance compliance level. A checklist was designed to construct a governance index for each of 128 Jordanian listed companies that disclose the necessary data to calculate the variables under study. The results indicate that on average Jordanian listed companies comply with mandatory governance rules. This compliance depends on some crucial variables. Company size, profitability, age as a listed company on the ASE, size of the auditor and type of industry significantly affect the compliance level.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Audit, Emerging Market, Compliance, Jordanian Listed Companies

JEL Classification: G34, M43, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zureigat, Qasim M., Determinants of Mandatory Corporate Governance: Evidence from an Emerging Market (2015). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 9 (3) p. 105-114, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2655165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
RANK
662,989
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies