Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Royal Family Members and Firm Performance: Evidence from Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

Accounting & Taxation, v. 7 (2) p. 29-42

14 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2016 Last revised: 19 Dec 2016

Abdullah Mohammed Alzharani

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ayoib Che-Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between Royal family members on the board of directors and firm performance of 573 publicly listed in the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul) during 2007-2011 periods. This study utilizes two measurements of the firm performance: (1) Tobin’s Q and (2) ROE. Using the WLS, the result of this study shows that the existence of Royal family members on the board of Saudi-listed companies is significantly associated with firm performance. This study provides evidence on the role played by Royal family members in reducing agency conflicts and information asymmetries in Saudi Arabia where firms may be influenced by the cultural issues related to political ties and family involvement. The result of this study contributes to the existing theory and empirical evidence of how Royal family members add value to the firm. It offers policy-makers additional evidence on the positive impact of Royal family members on firm performance.

Keywords: Tobin’s Q, ROE, Royal Family Members on the Board, Saudi Arabia

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Alzharani, Abdullah Mohammed and Che-Ahmad, Ayoib, Royal Family Members and Firm Performance: Evidence from Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (2015). Accounting & Taxation, v. 7 (2) p. 29-42, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2668816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,355
RANK
379,149
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies