Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Level of Alignment with the Integrated Reporting Framework Reduce Information Asymmetry?

23 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2015 Last revised: 29 Jul 2016

Carlos Martinez

Independent

Date Written: July 2, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between information asymmetry and the alignment with the Integrated Reporting (IR) framework in South Africa. Panel data regression and Welch’s t-test are used on a dataset of 64 firms listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) for the period 2013-2015. A statistically significant negative association was found to exist between the bid-ask spread and the level of alignment with the IR. Furthermore, the results suggest that the relationship between the bid-ask spread and institutional ownership is weaker for those firms with a high level of alignment with the IR framework. However, the results do not provide evidence of a reduction of information asymmetry after the adoption of IR. Rather, they suggest that companies with a better information environment are the ones following more closely the IR principles. This paper makes two contributions to the IR literature. Firstly, it refutes an assumption made by previous authors regarding the possible effect of IR on information asymmetry. Secondly, it provides a possible explanation for the differences in the level of alignment with the IR framework. This second contribution could help to explain the heterogeneity in IR quality and the tendency for ceremonial IR practice in South Africa found by previous authors. These results could be relevant for stock exchanges and regulators interested in IR.

Keywords: CSR, ESG, integrated reporting, information asymmetry, cost of capital, non-financial disclosures

JEL Classification: D82, G38, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Carlos, Does the Level of Alignment with the Integrated Reporting Framework Reduce Information Asymmetry? (July 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2684784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
687
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,979
RANK
86,837
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies