Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Disclosure and Security Market Risk in the UAE

International Journal of Economics and Finance, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp.39-52, 2014

Posted: 20 Nov 2018

Mostafa Kamal Hassan

Alexandria University; University of Alexandria, Egypt; Qatar University

Md Hamid Uddin

The University of Southampton - Malaysia Campus

Date Written: June 1, 2014

Abstract

Corporate governance is an important issue in managing public firms because of agency problems between the shareholders and managers. Therefore, different countries devolved their own codes of corporate governance following the OECD guidelines and considering respective market conditions. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is a recent addition to the list of countries that adopted binding codes of corporate governance for the public firms. A large body of earlier studies shows that better corporate governance help increasing the valuation of firm. Since asset pricing theory suggests that valuation of low risk securities is higher because of the investors’ lower required rate of return, it is conjectured that improvement in the governance standard may reduce the investment uncertainty and thereby the security’s market risk may be reduced. The paper has constructed a weighted and an un-weighted Corporate Governance Disclosure Index (CGDI) for 95 public firms listed on the Dubai and Abu Dhabi stock markets, where the weighted CGDI gives more importance to OECD guidelines and international standards. The regression results revealed that after controlling for the other effects the weighted CGDI has significant negative effect on the level of security’s market risk measured by ‘beta coefficient’. However, the effect is not uniform across the samples, particularly the disclosure of corporate governance information do not affect the market risk of the low operating leverage firms as well as that of the finance firms.

Keywords: corporate governance, market risk, firm valuation, corporate governance index

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hassan, Mostafa Kamal and Uddin, Md Hamid, Corporate Governance Disclosure and Security Market Risk in the UAE (June 1, 2014). International Journal of Economics and Finance, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp.39-52, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684796
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
943
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies