Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational culture and corporate risk disclosure: An empirical investigation for United Arab Emirates listed companies

International Journal of Commerce and Management, Vol. 24, No. 4, pp. 277-299.

21 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2016 Last revised: 16 May 2025

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Mostafa Kamal Hassan

Alexandria University; University of Alexandria, Egypt; Qatar University

Date Written: September 30, 2014

Abstract

Purpose-The main purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between organizational culture and corporate risk disclosure for listed companies in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Design/methodology/approach: The Organizational culture is represented by four dimensions: Clan, Adhocracy, Market, and Hierarchy (Cameron and Quinn, 1999). Data is computed from the financial reports of all listed companies on the UAE stock market as on the year ending 2005. The multiple regression analysis (OLS) is used to test the study hypotheses. Findings: Results show that the organizational culture of Hierarchy, which focuses on more formalized work procedures, has a significant positive effect on the companies' risk disclosure in the UAE business environment. Several other control variables are implemented to ensure reliability of results. Practical implications: Listed companies in the UAE are more responsive to formal rules and regulations to report more risk disclosure, which is quite different from the "self-regulation" practices that are more common in some western countries. Consequently, Policymakers and regulators in the UAE, and in other countries with similar conditions, are encouraged to focus on continuous development of formal rules and procedures to enable more harmony with international best practices of risk disclosure. Originality/value: Unlike the majority of previous empirical studies, this is the first study to incorporate a behavioral endogenous organizational culture model to explain the main determinants of risk disclosure, which opens the door for more understanding of risk disclosure output function as a management process.

Keywords: risk disclosure, organizational culture, United Arab Emirates Classification: Research Paper

JEL Classification: M 41

Suggested Citation:

Elkelish, Walaa and Hassan, Mostafa Kamal, Organizational culture and corporate risk disclosure: An empirical investigation for United Arab Emirates listed companies (September 30, 2014). International Journal of Commerce and Management, Vol. 24, No. 4, pp. 277-299., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,104
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies