Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Internal Audit on Information System Effectiveness: Perceptions of Internal Auditors

43 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2015

Paul J. Steinbart

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Robyn Raschke

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

Graham Gal

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

William N. Dilla

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 3, 2015

Abstract

This paper presents the results of a survey of internal auditors’ perceptions about the nature of the relationship between the information security and the internal audit functions in their organization and the effect of that relationship on their organization’s information security efforts. Internal auditors perceive that increasing the frequency with which they review some information security activities improves the quality of the relationship between the two functions. Considering their role to be that of an advisor more than a policeman also improves the quality of that relationship. However, the quality of the relationship between the internal audit and information security functions does not affect either the number of security incidents or the number of audit findings related to information security issues. Furthermore, the frequency of audit reviews of information security affects the number of audit findings related to information security, but does not affect the number of security incidents. We discuss the implications of our findings for both research and practice.

Keywords: Internal audit, information systems security, information security governance, perceptions, survey

Suggested Citation:

Steinbart, Paul J. and Raschke, Robyn and Gal, Graham and Dilla, William N., The Influence of Internal Audit on Information System Effectiveness: Perceptions of Internal Auditors (November 3, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2685943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
B Behn , J Carcello , D R Hermanson , R H Hermanson
The determinants of audit client satisfaction among clients of big 6 firms
Accounting Horizons , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 24 Posted: 1997
P M Bentler , E J C Wu
EQS for Windows User's Guide Posted: 1995
G Bou-Raad
Internal auditors and a value-added approach: The new business regime
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 182 - 187 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Carcello , R Hermanson , N Mcgrath
Audit quality attributes: the perceptions of audit partners, preparers, and financial statement users
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 1992
Load more
1 Citations
Kıymet Tunca Çalıyurt
Integrity, Transparency and Corruption in Healthcare & Research on Health, Volume I
, p. 217 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
637
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,253
RANK
95,557
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies