Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Should Pick Board Members? Proxy Access by Shareholders to the Director Nomination Process

60 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2015

Yvan Allaire

Institute for Governance of Private and Public Organizations (IGOPP)

Francois Dauphin

Institute for Governance of Private and Public Organizations (IGOPP)

Date Written: October 30, 2015

Abstract

The prerogative of boards of directors to nominate the members of the board for election by the shareholders is now challenged by institutional investors determined to acquire the right, under certain conditions, to nominate their own candidates. This challenge to a board prerogative is called proxy access by shareholders to the director nomination process.

As a result of amendments to the existing regulations in the United States, there has been a flood of proposals from shareholders to institute rules granting them access to the nominating process. In Canada, a form of access is already provided for by the Canadian Business Corporations Act (CBCA), but the conditions of this access are not perceived – by institutional investors, in particular – as sufficiently congenial because, among other factors, of the differential treatment for candidates put forward by shareholders.

Several plausible arguments may be marshalled in support of access to the nominating process by shareholders, such as the enhanced legitimacy of the directors sitting on the board. However, this proposal also raises a host of issues related to the logistics of its application and the potential adverse effects on governance and board dynamics. After an in depth analysis of the arguments for and against proxy access, IGOPP concludes that any process that would grant shareholders the right to put forward candidates for election to the board, whether such a process arises from new regulations or spontaneous proposals from shareholders, is unwise and likely to create serious dysfunctions in corporate governance.

We do recommend however that the nomination committee of the board implement a robust consultation process with the corporation’s significant shareholders and report in the annual Management Information Circular on the process and criteria adopted for nominating any new director.

Given the popularity of proxy access proposals among institutional shareholders, this policy position includes an appendix outlining the typical features, conditions and mechanics proposed for this shareholder access to the director nominating process. All these aspects of the proxy access initiative raise difficult questions to which we unfortunately find few satisfactory answers.

Keywords: proxy access, shareholders, director nomination process, governance, board members, SEC

Suggested Citation:

Allaire, Yvan and Dauphin, Francois, Who Should Pick Board Members? Proxy Access by Shareholders to the Director Nomination Process (October 30, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685790 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2685790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Ali C Akyol , Fen Wei , Patrick Lim , Verwijmeren
Shareholders in the Boardroom: Wealth Effects of the SEC's Proposal to Facilitate Director Nominations
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 47 , issue 5 , p. 1029 - 1057 Posted: 2012-10
Crossref
Y • Allaire , Y Allaire , M Firsirotu
Institute for Governance of Private and Public Organizations
Policy Paper , volume 3 , issue 189 Posted: 2003-11
Y Allaire , M Firsirotu
Stratégies et moteurs de performance : Les défis et les rouages du leadership stratégique , volume 566 Posted: 2004
Yvan Allaire , Stephane Rousseau
To Govern in the Interest of the Corporation: What Is the Board's Responsibility to Stakeholders Other than Shareholders?
Pages: 38 Posted: 21 Sep 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,158
RANK
444,118
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies