Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Corporate Governance in Shaping Accruals Manipulation Prior to Acquisitions

Accounting and Business Research, Volume 46, Issue 4, 2016

49 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2015 Last revised: 17 Jan 2019

Nico Lehmann

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Date Written: November 3, 2015

Abstract

Based on stock swap transactions involving public acquirers originating from the UK between 1998 and 2011, this paper investigates the role of corporate governance in shaping accruals manipulation prior to stock swap deals. In contrast to common claims that strong corporate governance constrains accruals manipulation, my results show that well-governed acquirers engage more aggressively in income-increasing accruals manipulation than those with weak governance. This finding is consistent with a role of corporate governance that incentivises managerial actions in the interests of firms’ shareholders. Overall, this finding highlights the setting-specific nature of the earnings management and corporate governance relation. My results are robust to different discretionary accrual models, differences in the firm’s growth structure, merger and acquisition control variables, a control group of 100% cash acquirers, an analysis of buy-and-hold abnormal returns, and potential sample selection problems.

Keywords: Accrual-based earnings management, corporate governance, share-based M&A transactions, managerial incentives

Suggested Citation:

Lehmann, Nico, The Role of Corporate Governance in Shaping Accruals Manipulation Prior to Acquisitions (November 3, 2015). Accounting and Business Research, Volume 46, Issue 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2685759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
V E Athanasakou , N C Strong , M Walker
Earnings management or forecast guidance to meet analyst expectations? Accounting and Business Research , volume 39 , p. 3 - 35 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Atieh , S Hussain
Do UK firms manage earnings to meet dividend thresholds? Accounting and Business Research , volume 42 , p. 77 - 94 Posted: 2012
Bok Baik , Jun-Koo Kang , Richard M. Morton
Earnings Management in Takeovers of Privately Held Targets
Pages: 40 Posted: 13 Sep 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,455
RANK
791,953
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies