Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Market-Based Corporate Governance Reform: Evidence from a Structural Analysis of Mandatory Auditor Rotation

90 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2015

Yi Liang

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: October 1, 2015

Abstract

Many current reform proposals of corporate governance involve financial market intervention as an external governance device. Among them, mandatory audit firm rotation has been controversial. This paper empirically evaluates and quantifies the economic impact of mandatory audit firm rotation using a structural approach, focusing on the critical role played by firms’ existing internal governance. My counterfactual analysis suggests that (1) mandatory audit firm rotation can reduce the shareholder value by 5.9 to 7.2 billion dollars for the US public firm in my sample; (2) a significant fraction of the reduction results from reduced board effectiveness in selecting desirable auditors and hence the policy is more costly to the shareholders of the firms with strong internal governance; (3) policies that improve firm internal governance can work better and increase shareholder value; and (4) mandatory rotation becomes even more costly and further increases the cost of reduced board effectiveness by approximately 4.0 percent when firm internal governance improves and the board interests become fully aligned with shareholder interests. These findings highlight the cost of mandatory audit firm rotation and that the proposed rotation may counteract other policies intended to improve internal corporate governance.

Keywords: Accounting; Mandatory Auditor Rotation; Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Yi, Evaluating Market-Based Corporate Governance Reform: Evidence from a Structural Analysis of Mandatory Auditor Rotation (October 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2686354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2686354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,303
RANK
314,223
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies