Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Decisions, Risk Management and Strategic Alliances: The Case of Corporate Governance at Akamai Technologies; Openwave Systems; Novell; Ask.Com (Ask Jeeves); and Firstwave Technologies, Inc.

36 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2015

Michael C. I. Nwogugu

Independent

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Akamai Technologies, Openwave Systems, Novell, Firstwave Technologies, and Ask.com (Ask Jeeves) (collectively, the "USTechCos") are US-based technology companies that have been functioning since 1999. The common characteristics among most of the USTechCos during 2001-2004, were that they were financially and operationally distressed; they didn't comply with accounting/disclosure regulations; and they derived substantial portions of their annual gross revenues from failed Strategic Alliances and the stock-market apparently assigned excessive value to many of those alliances (except for Openwave and Firstwave). This article contributes to the Corporate Governance, Strategic Decision and entrepreneurship literatures in the following ways: i) analyzing the operating context in which the USTechCos made very bad corporate governance and strategic decisions that resulted in their long-term under-performance and or the acquisition of such technology company (at a perceived low acquisition price that resulted in shareholder derivative lawsuits); and ii) develops some testable theories of corporate strategy, decision-making and adoption/diffusion of technology – such as the Dynamic Relative-Values Perception Theory and the Generalized Enviro-Cognitive Inertia Theory; iii) identifies the common characteristics of the USTechCos that may have affected their decision-making, inertia and strategies; and explains why the USTechCos were good candidates for an industry rollup (ie combining all five companies); iv) explains how the USTechCos could have improved their business strategies; and explains what types of Enterprise Risk Management measures that the USTechCos could have implemented.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Managerial Psychology; Risk Management; Strategic Alliances and Joint Ventures; Corporate Strategy; Sarbanes-Oxley Act (USA); Social Welfare

Suggested Citation:

Nwogugu, Michael C. I., Strategic Decisions, Risk Management and Strategic Alliances: The Case of Corporate Governance at Akamai Technologies; Openwave Systems; Novell; Ask.Com (Ask Jeeves); and Firstwave Technologies, Inc. (2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2686080 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2686080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Papaikonomou
Posted: 2010
Crossref
Michael C. I. Nwogugu
Structural Changes, Competition And Complexity: Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) And Allocation Mechanisms For Accounting Firms.
Pages: 39 Posted: 20 Feb 2011 Last revised: 21 Jan 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nwogugu
discussed these issues, statutes and regulations. Young (Feb. 21, 2013) noted that the annual cost of regulations imposed by various US federal government agencies could be classified into the following groups: Group-F5 (Greater Than $100 billion per year):  Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): $353 billion  Health & Human services (HHS): $184.8 billion  FCC and Telecom Regulation: $142 billion  Department of Labor: $116.3 billion  Financial Regulation
Nwogugu (2015b), Nwogugu (2015c) Posted: 2008
809 billion  US Department of Agriculture (USDA): $9.05 billion  Department of the Interior: $5.2 billion Group-F2 ($1 billion -$5 billion per year):  Department of Education: $3.302 billion  Housing & Urban Development (HUD): $1.827 billion  Department of Commerce: $1.801 billion  Department of the Treasury: $1.32 billion  Department of Justice: $1.25 billion Group-F1 (Less Than $1 billion per year):  U.S. Access Board (ATBCB): $851 million  Nuclear Regulatory Commission: $414 million  FERC: $336 million  CPSC: $193 million  Equal
Group-F4 ($10 billion -$100 billion per year):  Department of Transportation: $61.8 billion  Department Of Homeland Security (DHS): $55.32 billion Group-F3 ($5 billion -$10 billion per year):  Energy Department: $9
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,089
RANK
390,788
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies