Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management -- Does Corporate Sustainability Performance Matter?

University of Zurich, Department of Business Administration, UZH Business Working Paper No. 358

21 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2015

Katrin Hummel

WU Vienna University of Economics and Business

Peter Ising

Accenture AG

Date Written: October 1, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between corporate sustainability performance and earnings management practices in a European setting. We measure earnings management based on discretionary accruals (cash flow approach) and real activity management. Corporate sustainability performance is a multi-dimensional construct that is measured based on data provided by the CSRHub database. Employing a European sample of 1,426 firm-year observations, our results reveal a negative relationship between corporate sustainability performance and earnings management activities. This finding supports the notion that a broad and integrated approach of sustainability performance constrains the use of earnings management practices. The results are consistent with recent research on U.S. non-financial companies (Kim et al. 2012), indicating the application of similar principles in U.S. and European settings. Additional analyses reveal that this relationship is particularly applicable to the environmental and community dimensions of sustainability, whereas we find only limited empirical evidence on this relationship for the employee dimension. Taken together, our study provides further evidence regarding the relevance of corporate sustainability in the financial context.

Keywords: corporate sustainability performance, earnings management, discretionary accruals, real activity management, legitimacy theory, stakeholder theory

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hummel, Katrin and Ising, Peter, Earnings Management -- Does Corporate Sustainability Performance Matter? (October 1, 2015). University of Zurich, Department of Business Administration, UZH Business Working Paper No. 358, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2687917 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2687917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
*** , *
and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% levels (two-tailed), respectively. References Anthony JH, Ramesh K (1992) Association between accounting performance measures and stock prices: A test of the life cycle hypothesis
J Acount Econ , volume 15 , p. 203 - 207
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality at initial public offerings
J Acount Econ , volume 45 , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Bénabou , J Tirole
Incentives and Prosocial Behavior
Am Econ Rev , volume 96 , p. 1652 - 1678 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M D Beneish , M E Vargus
Insider trading, earnings quality, and accrual mispricing
Account Rev , volume 77 , p. 755 - 791 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Daeheon Choi , Chune Young Chung , Young-Eun Kim , Ye Jun Kim , Paul Moon Sub Choi
Sustainable Corporate Ownership Structures and Earnings Management in the Vietnamese Stock Market
Sustainability , volume 12 , issue 15 , p. 6089 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
694
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,902
RANK
85,579
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies