Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Contract Design Regulation and Risk-Taking

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2015

Johannes Sauset

University of Göttingen - Department of Economics

Phillip Waller

University of Göttingen

Michael Wolff

University of Göttingen

Date Written: April 30, 2015

Abstract

Since 2009, the European Commission requires firms to incorporate an array of new elements into CEO compensation contracts, such as bonus caps, claw back provisions, bonus deferral, performance-vesting, and minimum shareholding guidelines. This paper examines whether CEO contract design in line with the EC principles reduces risk-taking and its economic consequences. Using hand-collected contract design data of 763 firm-years from European listed non-financial firms, we construct an index that reflects a firm's contract fit with the EC principles. Complemented by hand-collected data of national regulatory changes consistent to the EC principles, we employ the regime shift as quasi-experiment. We find that CEOs rewarded under contracts more in line with the principles choose lower risk profiles with respect to their country peers by divergent reductions of idiosyncratic and systematic risk-taking. Moreover, intensity of change of the regulatory environment negatively affects systematic risk-taking. However, reduced risk-taking might lead to reduced subsequent performance.

Keywords: Management compensation; CEO contract design; Risk-taking; Institutional differences

JEL Classification: G32, G34, J33, M52

Suggested Citation:

Sauset, Johannes and Waller, Phillip and Wolff, Michael, CEO Contract Design Regulation and Risk-Taking (April 30, 2015). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2688454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2688454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,780
RANK
359,199
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies