Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financing Decisions in Newly Privatized Chinese Firms: Does a Stock Market Quotation Really Provide Discipline?

Huyghebaert, N., Q. Quan and L. Sun (2014), “Financing Decisions in Newly Privatized Chinese Firms: Does a Stock Market Quotation really Provide Discipline?”, Journal of Financial Intermediation 23(1), pp. 27–46.

Posted: 17 Nov 2015

Nancy Huyghebaert

KU Leuven - Department of Accountancy, Finance and Insurance

Qi Quan

KU Leuven

Lijian Sun

Independent; Chinese Academy of Surveying and Mapping

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This paper uses the framework developed by Helwege and Liang (1996) to investigate the post-listing financing decisions of 221 Chinese state-owned enterprises that were partially privatized via the stock market in 1994–1999. First, we estimate a logit panel data model to examine the decision to raise external funds, either bank loans or equity. Our results show that the probability of raising external finance is positively correlated with the firm’s cash shortage, but only if non-cash working capital is included in the definition of the deficit. In contrast, firms with a cash surplus are less likely to tap external financial markets. Second, we examine the type of security issued and find that default risk negatively affects the probability of completing a stock offering, while firm-level information asymmetries are not significant. Overall, we document some important differences between the firms where the government retained its majority stake and those where it relinquished it; we link these to differences in the firms’ governance and access to financial markets.

Keywords: privatization, capital structure, asymmetric information, default risk, governance

JEL Classification: G31, G32

Suggested Citation:

Huyghebaert, Nancy and Quan, Qi and Sun, Lijian and Sun, Lijian, Financing Decisions in Newly Privatized Chinese Firms: Does a Stock Market Quotation Really Provide Discipline? (2014). Huyghebaert, N., Q. Quan and L. Sun (2014), “Financing Decisions in Newly Privatized Chinese Firms: Does a Stock Market Quotation really Provide Discipline?”, Journal of Financial Intermediation 23(1), pp. 27–46., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689532
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,111
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies