Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large Shareholders and Value Creation Through Corporate Acquisitions in Europe. The Identity of the Controlling Shareholder Matters.

Craninckx, K. and N. Huyghebaert (2015), “Large Shareholders and Value Creation through Corporate Acquisitions in Europe. The Identity of the Controlling Shareholder Matters”, European Management Journal, 33(2), 116–131.

Posted: 17 Nov 2015

Katrien Craninckx

University of Leuven (KU Leuven); Catholic University of Louvain (UCL) - Lessius University College

Nancy Huyghebaert

KU Leuven - Department of Accountancy, Finance and Insurance

Date Written: November 12, 2015

Abstract

We investigate whether and how major shareholders influence M&A wealth effects for listed acquirers in Europe. To that end, we examine 342 intra-European takeovers of listed target firms announced between 1997 and 2007. We find that family-controlled acquiring firms on average engage in deals with substantially larger value creation, particularly in Continental Europe. However, this positive family effect disappears in industry-diversifying acquisitions, consistent with the idea that those family-controlled firms may also pursue corporate diversification through M&As in order to diversify the family wealth. Moreover, family owners across Europe cannot curb low-value acquisitions driven by managerial overconfidence. We relate this finding to the strong connections of family owners with management in family-controlled firms. Next, large institutional shareholders all over Europe are associated with the lowest-value deals, but they are able to limit the negative effects of managerial overconfidence. As to the division of M&A gains, we find that regardless of their identity, large acquirer shareholders tend to put their firm in a weaker negotiation position. Lastly, we find no robust support for the idea that major owners are less likely to pursue private benefits through M&As in countries with stronger investor protection.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, value creation, ownership structure

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Craninckx, Katrien and Huyghebaert, Nancy, Large Shareholders and Value Creation Through Corporate Acquisitions in Europe. The Identity of the Controlling Shareholder Matters. (November 12, 2015). Craninckx, K. and N. Huyghebaert (2015), “Large Shareholders and Value Creation through Corporate Acquisitions in Europe. The Identity of the Controlling Shareholder Matters”, European Management Journal, 33(2), 116–131., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689529
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,093
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies