Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Family Ownership and Control on Disclosure Policies of Public Firms

Posted: 14 Nov 2015 Last revised: 14 Sep 2019

Daniele Macciocchi

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Date Written: January 10, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of family ownership on firm voluntary disclosure and the associated capital market consequences. I use a randomly assigned family trait, the gender of the firstborn child of the firm’s family owner, as an instrumental variable and find that family ownership of a firm decreases its voluntary disclosure and stock liquidity. Results suggest that incentives to retain family ownership and control of a firm affect corporate disclosure policies, and exemplify why some firms are opaque despite the potential capital market benefits of improved disclosure. Robustness tests show that the negative effect of family ownership on firm voluntary disclosure holds across different firm generations, ages of the firstborn child, local economic development and cultural settings.

Keywords: Family ownership, voluntary disclosure, stock liquidity, growth opportunities

JEL Classification: G14, G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Macciocchi, Daniele, The Effect of Family Ownership and Control on Disclosure Policies of Public Firms (January 10, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2690857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2690857
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,346
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies