Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alternative Risk Premia, Complexity and Bankruptcy Prediction: Behavioral and Asset-Pricing Anomalies In DERs and ASRs

22 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2015 Last revised: 21 Jan 2018

Michael C. I. Nwogugu

Independent

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Since 1990, there has been substantial debate in both the popular press and academic materials about earnings management by multinational companies and the capital markets (ie. microstructure; raising capital) effects of their rampant uses of Dividend-Equivalent Rights (“DERs”) and Accelerated Stock Repurchases (“ASRs”). DERs and ASRs have become popular but inefficient corporate governance, financing and risk management instruments among large and medium companies globally and have significant implications for incentives, portfolio management, asset pricing and corporate financing. DERs and ASRs are regulated by national securities and accounting regulations (eg. IASB/IFRS), but the affected companies also operate in foreign countries. This article contributes to the literature in the following ways: i) explains why ASR programs and DERs are problematic/inefficient and why the generally accepted accounting methods for them are wrong – these issues represent both behavioral anomalies (by both investors and firm managers) and asset pricing anomalies; ii) two major implications are that DERs and ASRs may distort firms’ cost-of-capital, financing and opportunity sets, and that as noted in the academic and practitioner finance literature DERs and ASRs carry significant information content and can be exploited to generate alternative risk premia; iii) introduces new theories of Corporate Governance and Enterprise Risk Management; iv) explains how the existence and use of DERs and ARSs contravenes many finance theories.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Asset Pricing Anomalies; Alternative Risk Premia; Behavioral Finance; Algorithms; Enterprise Risk Management; Bankruptcy Prediction; Agents and Group Decisions

Suggested Citation:

Nwogugu, Michael C. I., Alternative Risk Premia, Complexity and Bankruptcy Prediction: Behavioral and Asset-Pricing Anomalies In DERs and ASRs (2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2691119 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2691119
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
H Albrecher , R Kainhofer
Risk theory with a nonlinear dividend barrier
Computing , volume 68 , issue 4 , p. 289 - 311 Posted: 2002
P Andreou , I Cooper , I De Olalla , C Louca
Managerial Overconfidence And The Buyback Anomaly Posted: 2015-02
Crossref
Andrew Ainsworth , Maximilian Nicholson
Can Dividend Schedules Predict Abnormal Returns? International Evidence
2015 Financial Markets & Corporate Governance Conference Pages: 32 Posted: 29 Jan 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Inc Apple
s annual/quarterly financial statements for Posted: 2010
Load more
7 Citations
Michael C. I. Nwogugu
The Case Of Apple, Inc., and Fintech: Managerial Psychology, Corporate Governance and Business Processes.
49 Pages · Posted: 24 Jun 2015 · Last revised: 11 Jun 2017 · Downloads: 2,827
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael C. I. Nwogugu
The 'Popular-Index Ecosystems': Managerial Psychology, Corporate Governance and Risk.
36 Pages · Posted: 20 Mar 2017 · Downloads: 68
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael C. I. Nwogugu
Complexity, Network-Decisions And Alternative Risk Premia: Some New Theories Of Structural Change And Portfolio Decisions.
18 Pages · Posted: 23 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 6 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 298
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael C. I. Nwogugu
Complexity, Network-Decisions And Alternative Risk Premia: Some New Theories Of Structural Change And Portfolio Decisions.
20 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 6 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 85
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,150
RANK
390,788
7 Citations
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies