Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Governance of Publicly Traded Limited Liability Companies

Delaware Journal of Corporate Law (DJCL), Vol. 40, No. 1, 2015

Tilburg Law School Research Paper No. 20/2015

75 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2015 Last revised: 2 Dec 2015

Suren Gomtsian

London School of Economics - Law School; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The limited liability company is not only a widespread business form for non-listed firms but also is used by listed companies. There were twenty publicly traded Delaware LLCs in September 2013. Given the policy of the Delaware legislators and courts to give maximum effect to the principle of freedom of contract in LLCs, the use of this business form by publicly traded companies can jeopardize traditional corporate governance mechanisms used in listed corporations and create risks for investors in stock markets. The author analyzed the governance agreements and structures of twenty publicly traded LLCs to establish the demand for contractual freedom in LLC governance and examine the practice of investor rights in listed LLCs. The study shows that the founders of publicly traded LLCs extensively relied on the default statutory rules to strengthen their decision-making rights, entrench control, and limit the role of fiduciary duties of care and loyalty. But they included provisions in the operating agreements that could balance the rights of controlling and minority members. The study also found that other factors - such as ownership structure, dividend policies, board composition and board practices, market forces, and the standardization of the governance structures of listed LLCs - can be substitutes for legal rights. As predicted in theory, publicly traded LLCs used different combinations of contractual rights and the mentioned non-legal factors to make their IPOs attractive for investors.

Keywords: limited liability companies, non-corporate business associations, contract design, investor protection, IPO, corporate governance, financial contracting, partnership taxation

JEL Classification: K220

Suggested Citation:

Gomtsian, Suren, The Governance of Publicly Traded Limited Liability Companies (2015). Delaware Journal of Corporate Law (DJCL), Vol. 40, No. 1, 2015, Tilburg Law School Research Paper No. 20/2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2691485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Cf , Goodgame
, volume 247
See Benjamin Means
A Voice-Based Framework for Evaluating Claims of Minority Shareholder Oppression in the Close Corporation, 97 GEO
L.J , volume 1207 Posted: 2009
Henry Hansmann
A] great strength of investor-owned firms is the fact that the owners generally share a single, well-defined objective: to maximize the net present value of the firm's earnings per dollar invested
J.L. ECON. & ORG , volume 267 Posted: 1988
See Mohsen Manesh
Legal Asymmetry and the End of Corporate Law, 34 DEL
J. CORP. L , volume 465 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
505
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,596
RANK
64,952
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies