Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value to Management of Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground

45 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2015 Last revised: 5 Dec 2017

Joseph V. Carcello

University of Tennessee

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Adi Masli

University of Arkansas - Sam M. Walton College of Business

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 4, 2017

Abstract

This study examines how using the internal audit function as a management training ground (MTG) impacts manager’s reliance on internal auditor recommendations. While prior research suggests that using internal audit as a MTG can adversely affect financial reporting quality, external audit fees, and internal audit efficiency, many internal audit functions use this practice. We study how this practice influences another important stakeholder—senior management. Based on survey results of 355 chief audit executives (CAEs), we find that CAEs perceive senior management to be more likely to use recommendations from MTG internal auditors than non-MTG internal auditors. To bolster the validity of these findings and provide evidence as to why this is the case, we conduct two experiments with 147 executives (47 MTurk workers) with an average of about 25 (13) years of experience. The experimental results confirm the survey results. We also find that the key reason why managers rely more on MTG than non-MTG recommendations is that MTG internal auditors are perceived to have more natural ability, which is a key driver in manager’s reliance decision. Taken together, our research provides the first empirical evidence that there are positive consequences to using the internal audit function as a MTG in contrast to the negative consequences previously reported.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Management Training Ground, Managers, Board of Directors, Audit Committee

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Carcello, Joseph V. and Eulerich, Marc and Masli, Adi and Wood, David A., The Value to Management of Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground (December 4, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2691535 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2691535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
L J Abbott , B Daughtery , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 31 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
When the PCAOB talks, who listens? Evidence from stakeholder reaction to GAAP-Deficient PCAOB inspection reports of small Auditors
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Acfe
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
858
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,814
RANK
64,721
21 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies