Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committees, Non-Audit Services, and Auditor Reporting Decisions Prior to Failure

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 17 Nov 2015

Chloe Yu-Hsuan Wu

Leeds University Business School; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Hwa-Hsien Hsu

Durham University Business School

Jim Haslam

University of Newcastle - Business School

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates the associations between audit committee characteristics and the likelihood of auditor going-concern decisions among a sample of UK failed firms. Specifically, we examine whether the threat posed by auditor-provided non-audit services (NAS) to auditor reporting quality is mediated by audit committee characteristics. We find that failed firms with higher percentages of independent non-executive directors and financial experts on the audit committee are more likely to receive auditor going-concern modifications prior to failure. The evidence further suggests that the association between NAS and auditor reporting decisions is subject to audit committee characteristics. NAS is less likely to have an unfavorable link with auditor going-concern opinions when the audit committee is more independent and includes more financial experts. Overall, the findings provide support for corporate governance regulators’ concerns about the monitoring benefits of audit committee independence and the presence of financial expertise on the audit committee on auditor reporting quality.

Keywords: Audit committee, Corporate governance, Non-audit services fees, Going-concern report, Corporate failure

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Chloe Yu-Hsuan and Hsu, Hwa-Hsien and Haslam, Jim, Audit Committees, Non-Audit Services, and Auditor Reporting Decisions Prior to Failure (March 1, 2015). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2691126
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,357
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies