Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Option Sensitivity to Dividend Yield and Its Impact on Corporate Dividend Policy

42 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2015 Last revised: 15 Dec 2015

Huseyin Gulen

Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr School of Business, Purdue University; Purdue University - Krannert School of Management

Jin Xu

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Date Written: November 18, 2015

Abstract

We document a significantly negative correlation between the absolute sensitivity of the CEO’s option portfolio value to dividend yield (denoted by the Greek letter Psi) and corporate dividend payouts. After the implementation of the FAS 123R, firms that reduce the CEOs’ holdings of highly dividend-sensitive options increase dividends significantly. Furthermore, after the 2003 dividend tax cut, firms are much less likely to increase dividends if their CEOs’ option Psi is larger. The result is stronger for firms with less independent boards and when directors receive large amounts of option grants. These results support a causal impact of the CEO’s portfolio (dis)incentives on corporate dividend policy.

Keywords: portfolio Psi, dividend policy, FAS 123R, 2003 Dividend Tax Cut

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G35, J33

Suggested Citation:

Gulen, Huseyin and Xu, Jin, CEO Option Sensitivity to Dividend Yield and Its Impact on Corporate Dividend Policy (November 18, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2692724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2692724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,078
RANK
464,511
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies