Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing of Corporate Social Responsibility (Case Study – Albanian Banking Sector)

16 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2015

Holtjana Bello

Risk&Audit Consulting

Elvin Meka

Tirana Business University College

Date Written: November 20, 2015

Abstract

In recent years the CSR has been a mainstream to the organization’s activities. CSR considers society, environment and ethics in making strategy that can secure economic and competitive advantage of the organizations. CSR takes care of the interest of all stakeholders, rather than that of the shareholders only. In this light, the banking sector needs to take account of the growing importance of CSR worldwide, in order to employ responsible business practices thus, improving long-term business reputation and increasing confidence of customers and business partners.

A necessary part of managing CSR aspect of banking activity is through the assurance provided to the senior management and the board of directors or audit committees on how responsibly banks operate. The internal audit plays a vital role in providing assurance to the board/or audit committees but, CSR auditing is not an all-embracing practice within Albanian banking industry, despite the existence of CSR mission, vision, objectives and risks associated in some banks.

This paper identifies factors that result in successful CSR activities and the contribution the internal auditors can make through their assurance and consultancy role to provide further value- added services. Additionally, it highlights modest efforts in CRS audit activities within banking sector, in Albania although the growing nature of CSR risks and the business ethics, embedded in core corporate values of some banks. Therefore, it emphasize the usage of an audit CSR framework for banking sector’s internal auditors, as guidance for auditing socio/environmental areas and enabling them to customize such model to each bank’s characteristics.

Keywords: CSR, Ethics, Environment, Banking Sector, Audit, Corporate Governance, Accountability, Risk Management

JEL Classification: M14, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bello, Holtjana and Meka, Elvin, Auditing of Corporate Social Responsibility (Case Study – Albanian Banking Sector) (November 20, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2693840 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2693840
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Aab
Social events in banking sector in Albania. Bankieri , p. 10 - 12 Posted: 2012-07
S Aaronson
Corporate social responsibility for our customers, for our employees Posted: 2009-11-05
K Al-Khater , K Naser
User's perceptions of corporate social responsibility and accountability: evidence from an emerging economy
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 18 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 538 - 548 Posted: 2003
Crossref
G Batra
Dynamics of social auditing in corporate enterprices: A study ofthe Indian corporate sector
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 36 - 45 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,092
RANK
108,012
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies