Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modified IR As a Predictor of Fund Performance

40 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2015

Joshua Livnat

New York University; Prudential Financial - Quantitative Management Associates

Gavin Smith

Prudential Financial - Quantitative Management Associates

Martin Tarlie

GMO

Date Written: October 1, 2015

Abstract

One of the most crucial decisions for investors and plan sponsors is the selection of funds among the thousands of available alternatives. We stress that an investor first needs to specify a target alpha, i.e., the expected fund return in excess of a benchmark, and that the target alpha determines the types of funds that are most likely to fulfill that objective. We propose a modified Information Ratio (IR), i.e., the average past alpha above both the benchmark and the target alpha, scaled by tracking error, as a screening tool for future fund performance. We find that the Modified IR is a better predictor of future fund performance than many of the other predictors in the literature, including past performance (alpha) of the fund, the fund's past tracking error, active share, the fund's intercept in regressing its return on the Fama-French factors, and that regression's R2. Consistent with intuition, we find that as the target alpha increases, "winner" funds, i.e., those in the top quintile during the past 36 months according to the Modified IR and which were also able to achieve the target alpha, have higher tracking error, fewer stock holdings on average, higher expense ratio, higher active share, higher turnover ratio, and are smaller in terms of Total Net Assets (TNA). However, we also find that the actual average annual return on "winner" funds in the year after fund selection does not increase with target alpha, and that the higher the target alpha selected by the investor the lower the likelihood of actually attaining it. Finally, for any given target alpha, past "winner" funds that were able to achieve the target alpha in the prior 36 months vary considerably in the number of positions that they have in their portfolio. However, we find that past "winner" funds with a larger number of holdings are more likely to have better future performance than those that are more concentrated and have higher active share. These results point to the advantages of performance consistency that is more likely to be achieved through diversified portfolios.

Keywords: Modified Information Ratio, Fund selection, Predicting Fund Performance

JEL Classification: G11, G14, G20

Suggested Citation:

Livnat, Joshua and Smith, Gavin and Tarlie, Martin, Modified IR As a Predictor of Fund Performance (October 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2693607 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2693607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Y Amihud , R Goyenko
Mutual Fund R2 as Predictor of Performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 667 - 694 Posted: 2013
Crossref
K Baks , J Busse , C Green
Fund Managers Who Take Big Bets: Skilled or Overconfident Posted: 2006
T Bossert , R Fuss , P Rindler , C Schneider
How "Informative" Is the Information Ratio for Evaluating Mutual Fund Managers?
The Journal of Investing , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 81 Posted: 2010
Crossref
N P B Bollen , J A Busse
Short-Term Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 597 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,163
RANK
223,562
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies