Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Business and Financial Market Cycles on Credit Ratings: Evidence from the Last Two Decades

Abacus, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2015

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Luc Paugam

HEC Paris, Accounting and Management Control Department; CFA Society France

Hervé Stolowy

HEC Paris - Accounting and Management Control Department

Pierre Astolfi

University Paris-Est Créteil (UPEC)

Date Written: November 12, 2015

Abstract

We analyze the effect of business and financial market cycles on credit ratings using a sample of firms from the Russell 3000 index that are rated by Standard and Poor’s over the period 1986-2012. We also examine investor reaction to credit rating actions in different stages of business and financial market cycles. We document that credit rating agencies are influenced by business and financial market cycles; they assign lower credit ratings during downturns of business and financial market cycles and higher ratings during upturns. Our study is the first to find strong evidence of pro-cyclicality in credit ratings using a long window. We also document stronger investor reaction to negative credit rating actions during downturns. Our results confirm theoretical predictions and inform regulators.

Keywords: Credit rating agencies, Business cycles, Financial market cycles, Investor reaction, Credit rating quality

JEL Classification: E32, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lobo, Gerald J. and Paugam, Luc and Stolowy, Hervé and Astolfi, Pierre, The Effect of Business and Financial Market Cycles on Credit Ratings: Evidence from the Last Two Decades (November 12, 2015). Abacus, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2694461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
W Alissa , S B Bonsall , K Koharki , M W Penn
Firms' Use of Accounting Discretion to Influence Their Credit Ratings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 55 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D Allen , R Faff
The Global Financial Crisis: Some Attributes and Responses
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Alp
Structural Shifts in Credit Rating Standards
Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 6 , p. 2435 - 2470 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E L Altman , H A Rijken
How Rating Agencies Achieve Rating Stability
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 2679 - 2714 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,052
RANK
292,443
2 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies