Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Corporate Governance Different for Islamic Banks? A Comparative Analysis between the Gulf Cooperation Council and Southeast Asian Countries

Int. J. Business Governance and Ethics, Vol. 9, No. 1, 2014

Posted: 25 Nov 2015

Rihab Grassa

University of Manouba - Accounting; Economic Research Forum (ERF)

Date Written: November 23, 2015

Abstract

Islamic banks are particular financial institutions which generate distinct corporate governance challenges. This study compares the corporate governance attributes between Islamic and conventional banks in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and in Southeast Asian countries. Moreover, this paper studies the impact of relevant corporate governance variables on the Islamic banks’ performance. The sample included 77 large Islamic banks and 85 conventional banks observed over the period 2000–2009. Our findings revealed that there were several divergences between the corporate governance characteristics of Islamic banks and those of conventional banks. These differences originated mainly from the ethical aspects dominating the activities of Islamic banks and the regulatory environment in which they operate. Moreover, we found that board fee, CEO duality and CEO age had a significantly positive effect on the Islamic banks’ performance. However, the Shariah board characteristics seemed to be a value creator for Islamic banks.

Keywords: corporate governance, Islamic banks, GCC countries, Southeast Asian countries, performance

Suggested Citation:

Grassa, Rihab, Is Corporate Governance Different for Islamic Banks? A Comparative Analysis between the Gulf Cooperation Council and Southeast Asian Countries (November 23, 2015). Int. J. Business Governance and Ethics, Vol. 9, No. 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2694644
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies