Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proximity to the SEC and Stock Price Crash Risk

Financial Management, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2015

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

G. Brandon Lockhart

Clemson University - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 22, 2015

Abstract

We explore the possibility that SEC oversight influences disclosure practices in a manner that reduces the likelihood of individual stock price crashes. Firms located farther from the SEC have greater stock price crash risk and this result is more pronounced for firms with financial statements that are less readable (those with larger 10-K filings) and more pronounced when SEC budgets are relatively smaller. Similar results are obtained in response to SEC regional office location changes that are more likely to be exogenous. Our results suggest that SEC oversight induces disclosure practices that reduce the likelihood of large negative disclosures.

Keywords: Crash Risk, Enforcement Proximity

JEL Classification: G10, G18, G30, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Kubick, Thomas R. and Lockhart, G. Brandon, Proximity to the SEC and Stock Price Crash Risk (November 22, 2015). Financial Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2694280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
H An , T Zhang
Stock Price Synchronicity, Crash Risk, and Institutional Investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Armstrong , D Larcker , G Ormazabal , D Taylor
The Relation Between Equity Incentives and Misreporting: The Role of Risk-Taking Incentives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 109 , p. 327 - 350 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D Audretsch , M Feldman
R&D Spillovers and the Geography of Innovation and Production
American Economic Review , volume 86 , p. 630 - 640 Posted: 1996
G Becker
Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach
Journal of Political Economy , volume 76 , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,849
RANK
328,615
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies