Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Data and Measures Revisited

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 211

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-60

59 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2015

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Peter C. Reiss

Stanford Graduate School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Youfei Xiao

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Date Written: November 1, 2015

Abstract

Researchers in accounting, corporate finance, economics, and law regularly evaluate the impact of corporate governance provisions on firm performance and managerial actions. Many of these studies rely on publicly available governance summaries developed by the Investor Responsibility Research Center (IRRC). These summaries have been coded and used in a variety of influential studies, including analyses that assess whether corporate governance practices impact shareholder value.

This paper reexamines the coding of the IRRC summaries for the 1990s and early 2000s. We find that the IRRC coding and one commercial source of corporate governance data disagree significantly for several important governance indicators. Our own review of source documents uncovered measurement errors in the IRRC summaries, especially for golden parachutes and supermajority voting provisions.

We also find that the IRRC’s definitions do not always clearly represent managerial entrenchment or the difficulty of a (hostile) takeover, as many researchers have assumed. To understand whether these issues matter for corporate governance research, we investigate the striking conclusion of prior work that finds that a hedge portfolio composed of a long (short) position in firms with few (many) anti-takeover provisions produces annual excess returns of six to twelve percent per annum from 1990 to 1999.

We find that governance data corrected for errors and definitional concerns do not predict excess returns. We conclude researchers should exercise caution using IRRC data from this period, and that much more attention needs to be devoted to measuring corporate governance practices.

Keywords: corporate governance provisions, antitakeover provisions, impact on shareholder value, Investor Responsibility Research Center (IRRC)

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Reiss, Peter C. and Xiao, Youfei, Corporate Governance Data and Measures Revisited (November 1, 2015). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 211, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 15-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2694802 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2694802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What Matters in Corporate Governance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , C Wang
Learning and the Disappearing Association Between Governance and Returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , issue 2 , p. 323 - 348 Posted: 2013
Crossref
L Bebchuk , J Coates , G Subramanian
The Powerful Antitakeover Force of Staggered Boards: Further Findings and a Reply to Symposium Participants
Stanford Law Review , volume 55 , p. 885 - 915 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Bird
Stockholder and Corporate Board Bylaw Battles: Delaware Law and the Ability of a Corporate Board to Change or Overrule Stockholder Bylaw Amendments
University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 236 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,033
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,913
RANK
50,042
7 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies