Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing and Internal Controls for Offshored Accounting Processes: A Research Agenda

International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 23 Iss: 4, pp.310 - 326

31 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2015

Partha S. Mohapatra

California State University, Sacramento - Department of Accounting

Dina El Mahdy, Ph.D., CFE

Morgan State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Li Xu

Washington State University, Vancouver

Date Written: August 5, 2015

Abstract

Offshoring of accounting processes has become a common business practice, pursued by firms to reduce costs and focus on core competencies. However, our understanding about internal controls of these offshored processes is limited. Grounded in theory that is supported by prior literature and interviews with practitioners, this paper attempts to develop a research agenda on internal controls for offshored accounting processes. It further develops a linkage between internal controls of offshored accounting processes and auditing of the organization. This paper has implications for academicians as well as practitioners in terms of understanding the determinants and consequences of internal controls for offshored processes.

Keywords: Offshoring, Internal Controls, SSAE 16

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M49, F6

Suggested Citation:

Mohapatra, Partha S. and El Mahdy, Dina and Xu, Li, Auditing and Internal Controls for Offshored Accounting Processes: A Research Agenda (August 5, 2015). International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 23 Iss: 4, pp.310 - 326, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695622
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
O Aksin , A Masini
Effective Strategies for Internal Outsourcing and Offshoring of Business Services: An Empirical Investigation
Journal of Operations Management , volume 26 , p. 239 - 56 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX 2002-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , R Lafond
The effect of SOX 2002 internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Cosgrove , S Niederjohn
The Effects of Sarbanes-Oxley on the Public Accounting Industry
Journal of Business Strategies , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,200
RANK
280,604
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies