Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Firms in the European M&A Advisory Market

British Journal of Management, forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2015 Last revised: 11 Nov 2021

Pawel Bilinski

Bayes Business School, City University London

Andrew Yim

Bayes Business School, City, University of London

Date Written: October 14, 2021

Abstract

Building on the knowledge-based view of the resource-based theory, we propose that accounting firms leverage the industry expertise acquired from the audits of the targets’ industries to produce fairer target valuations on merger and acquisitions (M&As). The accounting expertise competitive advantage explains why bidders choose accounting firms, rather than investment banks, to advise on transactions where the likelihood of overpaying for a target is high. We document that for such deals, acquirer announcement returns are higher and offer premia are lower if the bidders are advised by accounting firms that are audit specialists in the targets’ industries. Our results explain why accounting firms are listed among top ten M&A financial advisors in the European Thomson Reuters and Mergermarket league tables.

Keywords: accounting firms, financial advisors, hard-to-value targets, mergers and acquisitions, knowledge-based view, resource-based theory

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bilinski, Pawel and Yim, Andrew, Accounting Firms in the European M&A Advisory Market (October 14, 2021). British Journal of Management, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2695819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
173 References
The Economist Posted: 2010-10-14
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings Quality, Insider Trading, and Cost of Capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
H Agnew , A Agrawal , T Cooper , Q Lian , Q Wang
Common advisers in mergers and acquisitions: Determinants and consequences
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 56 , p. 691 - 740 Posted: 2013
M F Ahammad , V Leone , S Y Tarba , K W Glaister , A Arslan
Equity Ownership in Crossborder Mergers and Acquisitions by British Firms: An Analysis of Real Options and Transaction Cost Factors
British Journal of Management , volume 28 , p. 180 - 196 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,530
RANK
190,292
173 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies