Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility: Communication Through Sustainability Reports by Indian and Multinational Companies

Tewari, R. and Dave, D (2012). ‘Corporate Social Responsibility: Communication Through Sustainability Reports By Indian and Multinational Companies’ in Global Business Review, Vol. 13.3

20 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2015

Ruchi Tewari

MICA

Dave Darshana

Sardar Patel University

Date Written: October 27, 2012

Abstract

Purpose: To understand CSR communication made the use of sustainability reports for this purpose. Further to compare the CSR communication made by the Indian and Multinational Companies (MNCs) through the sustainability reports.

Design/Methodology/ Approach: Examines the sustainability reports of the top 100 companies operating in the Information and Technology sector in India and compares the performance of the Indian and the MNCs in terms of CSR disclosure made through sustainability reports vis-à-vis the guidelines stated by the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI).

Findings: The total number of Indian companies in the IT sector publishing sustainability reports is few but quality of reports is of global standards and the international benchmarks stated by GRI is achieved by a larger percentage of the Indian companies as against the MNCs operating in India in the IT sector.

Research Limitations/ implications: The paper considers the sustainability reports only and no other medium of CSR communication. The study is limited to the companies operating in the IT sector only.

Originality/ Value: Sustainability reports as a medium of CSR communication is highly ignored and therefore the findings will supplement and enhance the understanding of CSR communication

Keywords: CSR, CSR communication, sustainability reports, Information Technology Sector, Indian companies and MNC

JEL Classification: M14; M10

Suggested Citation:

Tewari, Ruchi and Darshana, Dave, Corporate Social Responsibility: Communication Through Sustainability Reports by Indian and Multinational Companies (October 27, 2012). Tewari, R. and Dave, D (2012). ‘Corporate Social Responsibility: Communication Through Sustainability Reports By Indian and Multinational Companies’ in Global Business Review, Vol. 13.3 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
C Adams
Internal organizational factors influencing corporate social and ethical reporting -Beyond current theorising
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 223 - 250 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C A Adams , W Y Hill , C B Roberts
Corporate Social Reporting Practices in Western Europe: Legitimating corporate behaviour
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Apco
Communicating CSR: Talking to People Who Listen Posted: 2004-05
Basalamah , J Jermias
Social and Environmental Reporting in Indonesia Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,596
RANK
453,964
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies