Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation, Supervisión and Accounting Conservatism in Banks

31 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2015

Inmaculada Diaz-Sanchez

University of Murcia

Manuel Illueca Muñoz

Universitat Jaume I

Isabel Martinez-Conesa

University of Murcia - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: November 24, 2015

Abstract

The main purpose of this article is to evaluate the effects of the three pillars of Basel II, i.e. bank regulation, supervision and market discipline, on the timeliness of loan loss provisioning by banks. In particular, we analyze explicitly how regulatory and supervisory regimes interact with the market discipline measures, such as listing status, ownership and market concentration. Using a sample of 14,651 bank-year observations covering 54 countries over the period 1997-2009, we provide empirical evidence suggesting that a) the stringency of the regulatory and supervisory regimes is positively associated with accounting conservatism; b) unlisted banks and commercial banks are more conservative than listed entities and savings banks, respectively; and c) banks operating in more concentrated markets exhibit a lower degree of timeliness in loan loss recognition. In addition, our results suggest that strong capital requirements mitigate the effect of market concentration and governance on accounting conservatism, whereas strict regulatory regimes tend to reinforce the effect of both variables on early loan loss recognition.

Keywords: banking regulation, accounting conservatism, loan loss provision, market discipline, Basel II

JEL Classification: E510, E580, E590, M48

Suggested Citation:

Diaz-Sanchez, Inmaculada and Illueca Muñoz, Manuel and Martinez-Conesa, Isabel, Regulation, Supervisión and Accounting Conservatism in Banks (November 24, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2695121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
F Alali , B Jaggi
Earnings versus capital ratios management: role of bank types and SFAS 114, Review of quantitative Finance Accounting Posted: 2010
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The Limitations of Industry Concentration Measures Constructed with Compustat Data: Implications for Finance Research
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 10 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting characteristics and Board of Directors characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,330
RANK
336,212
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies