Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Staggered Boards and Shareholder Value: A Reply to Amihud and Stoyanov

Forthcoming, Journal of Financial Economics

19 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2015 Last revised: 20 Apr 2017

Alma Cohen

Harvard Law School; Harvard Law School; Tel Aviv University - Eitan Berglas School of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Charles C. Y. Wang

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: December 1, 2015

Abstract

In a paper published in the JFE in 2013, we provided evidence that market participants perceive staggered boards to be on average value-reducing. In a recent response paper, Amihud and Stoyanov (2015) “contest” our results. They advocate using alternative methods for estimating risk-adjusted returns and excluding some observations from our sample. Amihud and Stoyanov claim that making such changes renders our results not significant (though retaining their direction) and conclude that staggered boards have no significant effect on firm value. This paper examines and replies to the Amihud-Stoyanov challenge. We question their methodological claims, study the consequences of following their suggestions, and conduct additional robustness tests. Our analysis shows that the evidence is overall consistent with the results and conclusions of our JFE paper.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Staggered boards, Takeover defense, Antitakeover provision, Firm value, Agency costs, Delaware, Chancery court, Airgas

JEL Classification: G30, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Alma and Wang, Charles C. Y., Staggered Boards and Shareholder Value: A Reply to Amihud and Stoyanov (December 1, 2015). Forthcoming, Journal of Financial Economics , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2697352 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2697352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Yakov Amihud , Stoyan Stoyanov
Do Staggered Boards Harm Shareholders?
Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming Pages: 18 Posted: 6 Nov 2015 Last revised: 6 May 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen
The costs of entrenched boards
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 409 - 433 Posted: 2005
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S Bhojraj , C M C Lee , D K Oler
What's my line? A comparison of industry classification schemes for capital market research
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 745 - 774 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
405
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,947
RANK
166,169
5 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies