Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Practice in an Emerging Market: A Case of Listed Companies in Nigeria

Azərbaycanın İqtisadi və Sosial Araşdırmalar Jurnalı, Volume 3, Number 1, 2016

12 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2015 Last revised: 18 May 2016

Rasaq Olanrewaju

Lagos State Polytechnic

Samuel F. Johnson-Rokosu

University of Lagos - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 3, 2015

Abstract

This paper seeks to explore the trend in sustainability reporting practice in an emerging market. The study involves critical assessment of the current level of sustainability reporting disclosures. To achieve this, content analysis was used on data sourced from the corporate annual reports of selected listed companies quoted in Nigerian Stock Exchange. The analysis identifies the extent to which sustainability reporting has been in line with global best practices in disclosing the three sustainability reporting metrics (environmental, social and governance). Finding revealed that the selected listed companies are more highly disposed to disclosing governance and social information than environmental disclosure. Corporations also attempt to manage stakeholder impressions by self-servingly biasing the language and verbal tone used in their environmental disclosures. The study found that the greatest proportions of location of corporate social and environmental disclosure of the sampled companies are disclosed in the chairman‘s statement and directors‘ report.

Keywords: sustainability reporting, legitimacy theory, corporate sustainability, corporate social responsibility, stakeholder theory

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Olanrewaju, Rasaq and Johnson-Rokosu, Samuel F., Corporate Sustainability Reporting Practice in an Emerging Market: A Case of Listed Companies in Nigeria (December 3, 2015). Azərbaycanın İqtisadi və Sosial Araşdırmalar Jurnalı, Volume 3, Number 1, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2698901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
I Ansoff
Corporate strategy Posted: 1965
T O Asaolu , A A Agboola , T J Ayoola , M K Salawu
Sustainability Reporting in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Sector
Proceedings of the Environmental Management Conference , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2011
Measuring Up: A Study on Corporate Sustainability Reporting in Canada The Certified General Accountants Association of Canada(CGA)
CGA Posted: 2005
M C Chan , J Watson , D Woodliff
Corporate Governance Quality and CSR Disclosure
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
993
RANK
521,283
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies