Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Internal Auditing in Corporate Governance: A Foucauldian Analysis

Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal, Forthcoming

Posted: 7 Dec 2015 Last revised: 25 Jun 2016

Dessalegn Getie Mihret

Deakin University

Bligh Grant

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Date Written: November 11, 2015

Abstract

This study attempts to articulate the conceptual foundations of the role of internal auditing in corporate governance by drawing on Michel Foucault’s concept of governmentality.

The paper is a literature-based analysis of the role of internal auditing from a Foucauldian perspective.

It is argued that Foucault’s notion of governmentality provides conceptual tools for researching internal auditing as a disciplinary mechanism in the corporate governance setting of contemporary organizations. The paper develops an initial conceptual formulation of internal auditing as (a) ex post assurance about the execution of economic activities within management’s preconceived frameworks, and (b) ex ante advisory services to enhance the rationality of economic activities and accompanying controls.

This paper extends the Foucauldian analysis of accounting to incorporate internal auditing. It offers original propositions as a research agenda and discusses ontological and epistemic considerations associated with adopting the Foucauldian framework for internal auditing research.

The paper is expected to initiate debate on the choice of theory and method in internal auditing research. The propositions and research agenda discussed can be used to address research questions of an interpretive nature that could enrich our current understanding of internal auditing.

Keywords: Corporate governance; Foucault; Governmentality; Internal auditing; Enterprise risk management; Power

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Mihret, Dessalegn Getie and Grant, Bligh, The Role of Internal Auditing in Corporate Governance: A Foucauldian Analysis (November 11, 2015). Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2699723
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies