Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PCAOB Guidance and Audits of Fair Values for Level 2 Investments

42 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2015 Last revised: 23 Feb 2017

Scott A. Emett

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Robert Libby

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Mark W. Nelson

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: December 30, 2016

Abstract

Investments that are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy account for approximately 92% of US banks’ fair value assets. We report an experiment that examines how experienced auditors apply current PCAOB guidance when auditing portfolios of these assets. We hypothesize and find that, depending on how overstatement is distributed within a portfolio, current PCAOB guidance leads auditors to make adjustments that are predictably too large or small relative to the aggregate overstatement in the portfolio. We also predict and find that auditors identify some patterns of overstatement as indicative of management bias, but not others. However, management-bias assessments do not affect auditors’ adjustment decisions as standards imply they should, even when auditors are prompted to consider management bias. Together, these results highlight a potential deficiency in current auditing guidance that managers could exploit by strategically locating overstatements within securities with larger book values or by spreading those overstatements across many securities within a portfolio. We suggest changes to current PCAOB guidance which should reduce these effects.

Keywords: Fair value accounting, audit adjustments, management bias, PCAOB guidance

Suggested Citation:

Emett, Scott A. and Libby, Robert and Nelson, Mark W., PCAOB Guidance and Audits of Fair Values for Level 2 Investments (December 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2700292 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2700292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
J W Alba , S M Broniarczyk , T A Shimp , J E Urbany
The Influence of Prior Beliefs, Frequency Cues, and Magnitude Cues on Consumers' Perceptions of Comparative Price Data
Journal of Consumer Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 1994
Crossref
J W Alba , C F Mela , T A Shimp , J E Urbany
The Effect of Discount Frequency and Depth on Consumer Price Judgments
Journal of Consumer Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 114 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S B Anderson , J L Brown , L Hodder , P E Hopkins
The Effect of Alternative Accounting Measurement Bases on Investors' Assessments of Managers' Stewardship. Accounting , volume 46 , p. 100 - 114 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A G Backof , J Thayer , T D Carpenter
Auditing Complex Estimates: Management-Provided Evidence and Auditors' Consideration of Inconsistent Evidence Posted: 2016
Load more
5 Citations
Chris E. Hogan , Sarah E. Stein , Sarah Stuber
An Examination of Auditors’ Responsiveness to Risk Cues: Evidence from Fair Value Estimates
56 Pages · Posted: 10 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 15 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 150
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ben W. Van Landuyt
Does Emphasizing Management Bias Decrease Auditors’ Sensitivity to Measurement Imprecision?
Accounting, Organizations and Society 88 (January 2021) · 64 Pages · Posted: 15 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 1 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aleksandra Zimmerman , Dereck Barr-Pulliam , Joon-Suk Lee , Miguel Minutti-Meza
Auditors’ Use of In-house Specialists
University of Miami Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3695738, Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 68 Pages · Posted: 14 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 8 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 636
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jennifer McCallen , Heather Carrasco , Marcus M Doxey , Richard W. Houston , Yoon Ju Kang
Disentangling Overall Audit Inspection Risk: The Effects of Inspection Focus and Inspection Likelihood
54 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 202
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,249
RANK
239,255
5 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies