Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Antitakeover Statutes and Internal Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2015

Choonsik Lee

University of Rhode Island

Kee H. Chung

State University of New York at Buffalo - School of Management

Date Written: December 8, 2015

Abstract

Manuscript Type: Empirical

Research Question/Issue: This paper examines the relation between internal corporate governance and the market for corporate control by analyzing how firms’ internal governance mechanisms are related to states’ antitakeover statutes (ATS). Specifically, we test two competing hypotheses concerning the effect of ATS on internal governance: the substitution hypothesis and the complementarity hypothesis.

Research Findings/Insights: We provide evidence that is consistent with the complementarity hypothesis that exposure to a possible takeover increases rather than decreases the need for better internal governance mechanisms. Specifically, firms that are exposed to takeover threats (i.e., firms in states without ATS or firms that opt out of states’ ATS) have stronger internal governance mechanisms (i.e., adopt a greater number of governance standards) than do firms that are not exposed to takeover threats (i.e., firms in states with ATS). In a similar vein, firms adopt more internal governance standards when states abolish existing ATS.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: Although prior research suggests that exposure to takeover threats reduces managerial entrenchment through its disciplinary effect, our study provides evidence that exposure to a possible takeover could exacerbate the managerial myopia problem and that firms mitigate this problem through internal governance mechanisms. The results of the present study suggest that certain governance mechanisms (e.g., state-level ATS) are more effective in addressing the agency problem in the presence of other complementary governance mechanisms (e.g., firm-level governance standards), contributing to the growing literature that calls attention to the importance of viewing various governance mechanisms from a bundle perspective. In addition, our study contributes to the literature with a new identification strategy. Our identification strategy makes use of the fact that firms would not be subject to the same shock from the abolition of ATS if they had already opted out, which enables us to analyze the relation between ATS and internal governance mechanisms more accurately. This identification strategy may benefit future studies that consider state-level changes in ATS to be exogenous shocks.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: Our study provides empirical evidence concerning the complex ramifications of states’ antitakeover statutes for corporate governance that policymakers and market regulators should consider in their decision-making. The complementarity, particularly between state-level laws and firm-level board functions, may deserve better attention from policymakers, regulators, and corporate managers.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Antitakeover Statutes, Internal Monitoring

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Choonsik and Chung, Kee H., Antitakeover Statutes and Internal Corporate Governance (December 8, 2015). Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2700830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Managerial compensation and the threat of takeover
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 47 , p. 219 - 239 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R V Aguilera , K A Desender , L R Kabbach De Castro
A bundle perspective to comparative corporate governance. The SAGE Handbook of Corporate Governance , p. 379 - 405 Posted: 2012
R V Aguilera , I Filatotchev , H Gospel , G Jackson
An organizational approach to comparative corporate governance: Costs, contingencies, and complementarities
Organization Science , volume 19 , p. 475 - 492 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,779
RANK
521,283
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies