Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Impact and Sustainability of Corporate Social Responsibility in the Banking Sectors: Bangladesh Perspective

Posted: 10 Dec 2015

Niaz Mohammad

American International University Bangladesh

Shah Kamal

Standard Chartered

Date Written: December 9, 2015

Abstract

In the recent years Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has witnessed tremendous increase in awareness and control in the global arena. It is a concept where business organizations apart from their profitability and growth show interest in societal and environmental welfare by taking the responsibility of impact of their activities on stakeholders, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, and civil society. However, in developing nations the situation of CSR activities by financial institutions is not so flourishing. The aims of this study are to investigate the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities performed by ten commercial banks in Bangladesh and explore the potential social impacts and sustainability in the future. This study also traced to find the relationship among operational performance by contributing CSR activities. CSR activities affect social attention to the customers and related stakeholders. It shows the relation between after tax net operating income and CSR expenditures by banks using SPSS software.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility, sustainability, CSR reporting, performance measurement

Suggested Citation:

Mohammad, Niaz and Kamal, Shah, Social Impact and Sustainability of Corporate Social Responsibility in the Banking Sectors: Bangladesh Perspective (December 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2701258 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2701258
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
333
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies