Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between the Audit Committee and the Financial Performance, the Asset Quality and the Solvency of Banks in Romania

Transformations in Business & Economics, Vol. 14, No 2 (35), pp.161-173, 2015

13 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2015

Vasile Dinu

ASE Bucharest; Academy of Romanian Scientists

Mariana Nedelcu

Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Date Written: February 11, 2015

Abstract

The audit function has an important role in the corporate mechanism especially by extra value conferred to the governance process; thus, over time, this issue was debated assiduously in a series of studies and researches on information transparency at the level of companies. The purpose of this article is to provide a more comprehensive analysis of the relationship between the audit committee (as a guarantor of quality internal audit) and the financial performance, the quality of the portfolio, the solvency and the own funds in the Romanian banking system. Thus, concentrating attention on the features of the audit committee, the authors of this article tried to find answers motivated by the empirical analysis results to the general question: how the various recorded features of the audit committee performance influences the banking system, what is the value added by the quality of internal audit at the level of credit institutions?

In order to test the formulated hypotheses, the used research methodology is mainly quantitative, based on the statistical analysis, deductive, and having as starting point in the agency theory, as the objective testing possible links from cause-effect, and analysing the significance level thereof.

Keywords: audit committee, audit quality, corporate governance, agency theory, financial performances, solvency, banking system

JEL Classification: M40, G20, G30

Suggested Citation:

Dinu, Vasile and Nedelcu, Mariana, The Relationship between the Audit Committee and the Financial Performance, the Asset Quality and the Solvency of Banks in Romania (February 11, 2015). Transformations in Business & Economics, Vol. 14, No 2 (35), pp.161-173, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2702291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Audit committee characteristics and auditor selection
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
N Albu , R A Mateescu
The relationship between entrepreneurship and corporate governance. The case of Romanian listed companies
Amfiteatru Economic , volume 17 , p. 44 - 61 Posted: 2014
M Akhtaruddin , M A Hossain , M Yao , L
Corporate Governance and Voluntary Disclosure in Corporate Annual Reports of Malaysian Listed firms
Journal of Applied Management Accounting Research , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2009
M Akhtaruddin , H Haron
Board ownership, audit committees' effectiveness and corporate voluntary disclosures
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 82 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,374
RANK
116,702
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies