Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Does Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Curb Resource Extraction? Evidence from China

56 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2015 Last revised: 29 Mar 2019

Weili Ge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Zining Li

Loyola Marymount University - College of Business Administration

Qiliang Liu

Wuhan University - School of Economics and Management

Sarah E. McVay

University of Washington

Date Written: March 30, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether the strength of internal control over financial reporting (internal control) reduces the expropriation of resources from the firm by managers and controlling shareholders. Although we have ample evidence from prior literature that internal controls reduce errors in financial reports, it is less clear that they can curb resource extraction, as management may fail to enforce these controls. Exploiting the setting of China where we have a rich internal control dataset and established measures of resource extraction, we provide evidence that internal controls curb resource extraction on average. However, we also find that internal controls are less effective in curbing resource extraction within state-owned firms and within non-state owned firms that have a powerful controlling shareholder, suggesting that internal controls are less effective in these instances. Taken together, we conclude that internal controls must both exist and be enforced by management in order to achieve the intended goal of safeguarding assets. Although the analysis is conducted with Chinese data, the spirit of our findings should generalize to other settings. In particular, our findings suggest that management can “window dress” internal control procedures while still engaging in undesirable behavior.

Keywords: Internal control over financial reporting; regulation; resource extraction; window dressing; agency costs.

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Ge, Weili and Li, Zining and Liu, Qiliang and McVay, Sarah E., When Does Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Curb Resource Extraction? Evidence from China (March 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2704663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2704663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
946
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,816
RANK
56,479
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies