Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Organizational Culture and the Use of Management Initiatives in the Public Sector

Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Dec 2015

Kevin Baird

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Graeme L. Harrison

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: August 8, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines the association between five factors in O’Reilly et al.’s (1991) Organizational Culture Profile and the use of Activity Management, Total Quality Management, and Employee Empowerment within public sector organizations. The results show that the use of Activity Management and Total Quality Management is lower in public sector organizations than in their private sector counterparts, and is facilitated by an organizational culture of Outcome Orientation and Attention to Detail. The extent of use of Employee Empowerment is similar across the two sectors, and is facilitated when public sector organizations exhibit higher Respect for People and Innovation.

Keywords: Organizational culture, Activity Management, Total Quality Management, Employee empowerment, Management initiatives

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Baird, Kevin and Harrison, Graeme L., The Association between Organizational Culture and the Use of Management Initiatives in the Public Sector (August 8, 2015). Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2705206
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,168
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies