Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship between Profitability and Voluntary Disclosure: A Case of Banks in Kenya

25 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2015

Jehovaness Aikaeli

University of Dar es Salaam

Zuleikha Rashid

Independent

Date Written: November 20, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this article was to examine the relationship between profitability and voluntary disclosure practices in the Kenyan banking sector. To measure the extent of disclosure, an un-weighted disclosure index consisting of 40 items was applied. The study employed ordinary least squares technique to analyse the data. On average, voluntary disclosure level of the Kenyan banks was found to be at 62.8%. Results show that profitability, listing status and size of the bank are positively and significantly associated with voluntary disclosure levels. In order to improve the general level of banks disclosure, there is a need for regulatory agencies in Kenya to strengthen compliance to the existing disclosure requirements.

Suggested Citation:

Aikaeli, Jehovaness and Rashid, Zuleikha, Relationship between Profitability and Voluntary Disclosure: A Case of Banks in Kenya (November 20, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2706027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2706027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,197
RANK
172,005
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies