Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Accessibility and Stock Price Crash Risk

59 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2015 Last revised: 28 Feb 2023

Michael Firth

Lingnan University - Department of Finance and Insurance

Sonia Man-Lai Wong

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - Department of Finance and Insurance

Yi SI

City University of Hong Kong; Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Xiaofeng Zhao

Lingnan University

Date Written: June 10, 2019

Abstract

We examine whether corporate accessibility to outside market participants can mitigate stock price crash risk in a weak public information environment. We measure accessibility by assessing whether outside investors can assess and communicate with firms via public communication channels (e.g., telephone, email, and online forums) in China. We find that accessible firms have a lower stock price crash risk than inaccessible firms, and that this effect increases with firms’ geographic distance to the country’s financial centers. Further analysis reveals that such effects are related to the role of accessibility in facilitating information gleaning and the arrangement of private meetings between firms and outside investors. Finally, our findings suggest that accessible firms accumulate less negative corporate news than inaccessible firms.

Keywords: Corporate accessibility, Communications, Information acquisition, Stock price crash risk, China

JEL Classification: G19, D89

Suggested Citation:

Firth, Michael and Wong, Sonia Man-Lai and SI, Yi and SI, Yi and Zhao, Xiaofeng, Corporate Accessibility and Stock Price Crash Risk (June 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2706977 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2706977
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
J Aharony , C.-W J Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, finance, and economic growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
P C Andreou , C Louca , A P Petrou
CEO age and stock price crash risk
Review of Finance , volume 21 , p. 1287 - 1325 Posted: 2017
K.-H Bae , R M Stulz , H Tan
Do local analysts know more? A cross-country study of the performance of local analysts and foreign analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 88 , p. 581 - 606 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
355
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,745
RANK
192,754
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies