Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accruals Quality and Cost of Capital: Evidence from Chinese Stock Market

45 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2015 Last revised: 5 Apr 2019

Philip Keejae Hong

Central Michigan University

Tao Ma

Texas Tech University - Area of Accounting

Guochang Zhang

University of Hong Kong

Date Written: December 22, 2015

Abstract

We seek evidence of a link between accruals-based earnings quality (EQ) and cost of capital by examining two classes of shares traded in China’s segregated markets during 1995-2000. The A- and B-shares introduced respectively for domestic and foreign investors carry identical cash flow rights, but B-shares are traded at deep discounts relative to A-shares. We predict that whereas differential information access by foreign versus domestic investors through their own private channels causes A- and B-share prices to diverge, high-quality public reporting serves to narrow the information and hence price gaps. Consistent with our predictions, we find that EQ is negatively related to the A-B share price differential, and that the negative effect is more pronounced for firms with large information disparities between the markets. We further find that this EQ effect vanishes after the new policy in 2001, which permits domestic investors to also trade B-shares, and consequently reduces the inter-market information gap. By employing this unique setting, the study circumvents some of the research design limitations in prior studies, which enables us to better identify the pricing effect of accruals quality.

Keywords: Accruals Quality, Cost of Equity, Investor Informedness, Domestic and Foreign Investors, Chinese Stock Market

JEL Classification: M41, G12

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Philip Keejae and Ma, Tao and Zhang, Guochang, Accruals Quality and Cost of Capital: Evidence from Chinese Stock Market (December 22, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2707382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2707382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,858
RANK
209,480
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies