Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Reporting Streaks on Ex Ante Uncertainty

Management Science, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2015 Last revised: 20 Jun 2019

Thaddeus Neururer

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

George Papadakis

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)

Eddie Riedl

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: July 27, 2018

Abstract

This paper predicts and finds that investor uncertainty surrounding a key information release event—the earnings announcement—is decreasing in a firm’s reporting streak. We use three proxies related to investor ex ante uncertainty and corresponding pricing of such uncertainty: option-implied volatilities, variance risk premiums, and expected returns; all are measured with maturities surrounding the impending quarterly earnings announcement. Consistent with prior research, we measure reporting streak as the number of consecutive quarters the firm meets or beats the consensus analyst EPS forecast. Empirical results confirm that all three uncertainty related constructs are decreasing in the length of the reporting streak. Our results suggest prior findings of valuation premiums for firms having longer reporting streaks manifest (at least in part) through a denominator effect: that is, through reduced risk for such firms.

Keywords: Uncertainty; Implied Volatilities; Variance Risk Premium; Expected Returns; Reporting Streak; Meet or Beat Analyst Forecasts

JEL Classification: G13, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Neururer, Thaddeus and Papadakis, George and Riedl, Edward J., The Effect of Reporting Streaks on Ex Ante Uncertainty (July 27, 2018). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2707594 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2707594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,787
RANK
377,290
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies