Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Location Matter for Disclosure? Evidence from Geographical Segments

Forthcoming in Journal of Business, Finance and Accounting

45 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2015 Last revised: 8 Feb 2019

Edith Leung

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Economics (ESE)

Arnt Verriest

KU Leuven

Date Written: February 6, 2019

Abstract

The segment disclosures of multinational companies provide strategic information. We use the location characteristics of geographic segments to identify the reasons for withholding or disclosing segments. We examine segment data from around the adoption of IFRS 8, a reporting standard that requires firms to reveal more disaggregated information. Consistent with a proprietary cost motive for nondisclosure, we find that segments in regions that are deemed better for business tend to be hidden, while higher entry barriers for a segment are positively related to disclosure. These effects appear to be stronger for firms for which proprietary cost motives are more important. Among the previously unrevealed segments, proprietary costs explain the nondisclosure of segment earnings and other relevant financial information for investors.

Keywords: segment reporting, proprietary disclosure costs, IFRS 8

Suggested Citation:

Leung, Edith and Verriest, Arnt, Does Location Matter for Disclosure? Evidence from Geographical Segments (February 6, 2019). Forthcoming in Journal of Business, Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2707019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2707019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The limitations of industry concentration measures constructed with Compustat data: Implications for finance research
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P Andre , A Filip , R Moldovan
Segment disclosure quantity and quality under IFRS 8: Determinants and the effect on financial analysts' earnings forecast errors
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 51 , p. 443 - 461 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R J Barro
Getting it right: Markets and choices in a free society Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,521
RANK
584,078
7 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies