Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Post-Merger Performance of the European M&As: Does Pre-Merger Earnings Management Matter?

Alsharairi, M., Black, E.L., Hofer, C. and Al-Hamadeen, R. (2015) “The Post-merger Performance of the European M&As: Does Pre-merger Earnings Management Matter?” Corporate Ownership and Control. 13(1): pp. 994-1005.

Posted: 15 May 2016

Malek Alsharairi

German Jordanian University (GJU)

Emma Black

University of Newcastle - Business School

Christoph Hofer

Independent

Radhi Al-Hamadeen

Princess Sumaya University for Technology

Date Written: December 22, 2015

Abstract

This paper empirically examines the post-merger performance of a sample of 1,320 European mergers and acquisitions deals. Specifically, we investigate the impact of pre-merger earnings management of acquirers on both the short-term and long-term post-merger performance, for M&A deals completed between 2003-2012, considering both the form of payment and the target firm’s listing status. The findings suggest that acquirers report higher abnormal accruals before those deals where they pay with their stock and the target firms are private. The reported evidence suggests that, as a consequence, investors correct for these efforts in the long-term post-merger period – usually within the first 12 months. Moreover, acquirers are likely to experience positive abnormal returns in case of bidding for private targets, whereas negative abnormal returns are documented in case of a publicly traded target, respectively.

Keywords: mergers, acquisitions, earnings management, abnormal accruals, post-merger performance

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Alsharairi, Malek Ahmad and Black, Emma and Hofer, Christoph and Al-Hamadeen, Radhi, The Post-Merger Performance of the European M&As: Does Pre-Merger Earnings Management Matter? (December 22, 2015). Alsharairi, M., Black, E.L., Hofer, C. and Al-Hamadeen, R. (2015) “The Post-merger Performance of the European M&As: Does Pre-merger Earnings Management Matter?” Corporate Ownership and Control. 13(1): pp. 994-1005. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2707128
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,093
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies