Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Bank Credit Risk: Default Probability, Distance to Default

21 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2015

Binh Dao

Hanoi University - Faculty of Management and Tourism

Hoa Pham

Hanoi University

Date Written: June 15, 2015

Abstract

As the main function of bank is borrowing from their customers to make loans to others, so default risk is the oldest, the most important and primary risk in banking sector. Especially in these years after the recent financial crisis 2008, a huge amount of banks’ loan unfortunately became bad debt, default probability of banks consequently increases, and creditors also gradually lost their belief on banks, leading to an important restructuring in the Vietnamese banking sector nowadays. Therefore decreasing credit risk is a main job of manager and owners of banks, one tool is through corporate governance. This paper explores the relationship between default probability of banks due to their credit risks and the corporate governance structures of these banks from the perspective of creditors. The cumulative default probabilities and distance to default are estimated for a sample of Vietnamese commercial banks to measure their risk taking behavior. This paper works on a sample of 15 Vietnamese commercial banks from 2008 to 2012 to provide evidence that, after controlling for firm specific characteristics, commercial banks with smaller Board size of a bank, number of female shareholders in Board of directors, shareholder equity, and long term loan are associated with significantly lower credit risk levels. Larger number of Supervisory Board and short term debt has relationship with lower credit risk levels.

Keywords: default probability, distance to default, bank corporate governance, board composition

Suggested Citation:

Dao, Thi Thanh Binh and Pham, Hoa, Corporate Governance and Bank Credit Risk: Default Probability, Distance to Default (June 15, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2708994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2708994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Altman Z-Score
Credit Rating of Vietnam Joint Stock Company
Adolf A Berle , Gardiner C Means , ; P , J Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
The Modern Corporation and Private Property , volume 59 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1932
Banca D&apos;italia
Supervisory Provisions concerning banks' organization and corporate governance Posted: 2007
F Black , M Scholes
The Pricing ofOptions and CorporateLiabilities
Journal of Political Economy Posted: 1973
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
589
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,375
RANK
105,636
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies