Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creative Accounting and Corporate Governance: - A Literature Review

46 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2015

Sonia Mudel

University of Delhi, Delhi School of Economics, Department of Commerce, Students

Date Written: December 26, 2015

Abstract

The concept of corporate governance and creative accounting has come into picture after the big accounting scandals (Enron, WorldCom, Satyam computers etc.).Corporate governance represents the manner in which a company is directed and controlled and this aspect is closely related to creative accounting practices, ownership structure, board of director’s structure, they all can encourage or discourage creative accounting practices. Corporate governance is a current issue with great impact on creative accounting. This paper is based on how corporate governance seen as possible solution to reduce creative accounting practices. Occurrence of creative accounting is related to weakness of corporate governance. The paper is structured as follow, at first some definitions of creative accounting and corporate governance after introduction. After that motivators of creative accounting, consequence of creative accounting , techniques of creative accounting , solution to these techniques, theories of corporate governance are bring into attention to identify the nature , existence and incidences. After that relation between corporate governance and creative accounting is shown. The paper continues with a review of some code of conduct of corporate governance like SOX Act, Cadbury committee, Blue Ribbon committee, and concludes by suggesting some solutions and recommendations for this problem of creative accounting.

Keywords: Creative accounting, corporate governance, SOX, Code of conduct.

Suggested Citation:

Mudel, Sonia, Creative Accounting and Corporate Governance: - A Literature Review (December 26, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2708464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2708464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,009
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,416
RANK
51,714
3 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies