Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Political Economy of Corporate Tax Avoidance

56 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2016

Qiao Liu

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Wei Luo

The University of Hong Kong - HKU - Faculty of Business and Economics - Accounting Area

Pingui Rao

Jinan University - Management School

Date Written: December 30, 2015

Abstract

We exploit exogenous variation in turnovers of China’s municipal political leaders to study how political incentives affect firms’ strategic tax avoidance behavior. We document robust cycles in corporate tax compliance corresponding with the timing of political turnovers. Specifically, we find that firms avoid less tax in the early period of local politicians’ terms, but more in the remaining terms. The magnitude of the political cycles varies across municipal city, politician, and firm characteristics. Entirely different from channels such as the political uncertainty, the political connection, and the potential collusions between local politicians and firm in their jurisdictions, our further analyses suggest local politicians’ timing tax enforcement efforts to achieve their preferred policy outcomes is an important channel through which political process affects tax avoidance outcomes.

Keywords: political turnovers; political cycles; corporate tax avoidance; tax enforcement

JEL Classification: G31; G34; H26; K42; P48

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Qiao and Luo, Wei and Rao, Pingui, The Political Economy of Corporate Tax Avoidance (December 30, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2709608 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2709608
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
471
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,452
RANK
139,359
17 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies