Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Weighting in Corporate Governance Ratings

56 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2016 Last revised: 17 Jan 2017

Michail Nerantzidis

University of Thessaly

Date Written: January 16, 2017

Abstract

This methodological paper highlights the differences and the resulting implications from the application of the three most commonly applied weighting index methods to measuring corporate governance quality at an aggregate level: the Dichotomous; the partial compliance (PC) unweighted; and the Experts’ methods. In particular, first, we demonstrate how each method is applied and provide the details needed for readers to replicate each method. Second, we employ these methods on a sample of companies and compare the corresponding scores by testing their differences statistically. Third, as an indicative example of the potential implications arising from the use of these measures, we test whether the relation between market value and corporate governance levels differs, depending on the method applied. We find that the three methods produce significantly different overall and relative (i.e., ranking order) scores and, consequently, the relation between market value and corporate governance levels differs, depending on the method applied. Thus, we contribute to the corporate governance literature by showing that weighting in corporate governance indices matters and we recommend simultaneous application of at least two methods (i.e., the PC unweighted and the Experts’ methods) for deriving robust findings.

Keywords: Corporate governance; Governance ratings; Indices; Firm value; Greece

JEL Classification: G18, G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Nerantzidis, Michail, The Role of Weighting in Corporate Governance Ratings (January 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2709896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2709896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
M Abdullah , L Evans , I Fraser , I Tsalavoutas
IFRS mandatory disclosures in Malaysia: The influence of family control and the value (ir)relevance of compliance levels
Accounting Forum , volume 39 , issue 4 , p. 328 - 348 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R V Aguilera , K A Desender
Challenges in the measuring of comparative corporate governance: A review of the main indices Posted: 2012
Crossref
Bergh
West meets East: Building theoretical bridges (research methodology in strategy and management) , volume 8 , p. 289 - 322
Crossref
M Al-Akra , M Ali
The value relevance of corporate voluntary disclosure in the Middle-East: The case of Jordan
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 533 - 549 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,584
RANK
379,149
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies