Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study to Show the Relation between Creative Accounting and Corporate Governance

26 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2016

Sonia Mudel

University of Delhi, Delhi School of Economics, Department of Commerce, Students

Date Written: January 4, 2016

Abstract

The concept of corporate governance and creative accounting has come into picture after the big accounting scandals (Enron, WorldCom, Satyam computers etc.). Corporate governance represents the manner in which a company is directed and controlled and this aspect is closely related to creative accounting practices, ownership structure, board of director’s structure, they all can encourage or discourage creative accounting practices. Corporate governance is a current issue with great impact on creative accounting. Occurrence of creative accounting is related to weakness of corporate governance. The paper is structured as follow, at first some definitions of creative accounting and corporate governance after introduction. After that role of corporate governance in detecting creative accounting practices is shown, theories of corporate governance are bring into attention to identify the nature, existence and incidences. Comparative analysis of top scandals is also shown on the basis of some corporate governance parameters. In this paper we examine the relation between creative accounting and corporate governance. Corporate governance is measured through TDI, and results that more information is provided on audit committee and for company’s shareholders as compared to its Board structure and disclosure practices. Creative accounting is measured by performance indicators like Tobin’s Q, ROA, ROCE, Debt/Equity. In correlation we find significant negative relationship between ROCE and leverage of firm, and significant positive relationship between P/E and leverage.

Keywords: Creative Accounting, Corporate Governance, Financial Scandals, Performance ratios

Suggested Citation:

Mudel, Sonia, A Study to Show the Relation between Creative Accounting and Corporate Governance (January 4, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2710567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2710567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
J P Sharma
Business Ethics and CSR Posted: 2014
S Z A Shah , B Safdar
Creative Accounting: A Tool to Help Companies in a Crisis or a Practice to Land Them into Crises
International Conference on Business and Economics Research , volume 16 , p. 96 - 102 Posted: 2011
M S Rajput
Creative Accounting: Some Aspects
International Journal of Business and Administration Research Review , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 193 - 199 Posted: 2014
Atul K Shah
Exploring the influences and constraints on creative accounting in the United Kingdom
The European Accounting Review , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 104 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,007
RANK
40,355
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies