Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges in Setting Up Efficiency Drive within Modern Organizations

Posted: 3 Jan 2016 Last revised: 5 Jan 2016

Professor Alain Ndedi

International Council for Family Business; YENEPAD; Saint Monica University; University of Johannesburg; University of Pretoria; Prime Light Open University

Mau Kingsly

Harvard University - Harvard Kennedy School (HKS)

Polycarpe Feussi

University of Johannesburg; Pearson Institute of Higher Education

Date Written: January 2, 2016

Abstract

In simple terms, efficiency signifies a level of performance that describes a process that uses the lowest amount of inputs to create the greatest amount of outputs within an organisation. Efficiency relates to the use of all acquired inputs in producing any given output. Thus, efficiency is a measurable concept that can be determined by determining the ratio of useful output to total input. It minimizes the waste of resources such as physical materials, energy and time, while successfully achieving the desired output. Before starting on an efficiency drive, it’s important to make sure the company is ready for the process.

This paper provides various steps needed to implement organizational efficiency.

The first step is take time to get all personnel on board. Their buy-in is crucial to the project’s success. Supervisors and employees must understand how important they are going to make change happen at the company. The efficiency goals need to be shared and obtaining feedback from employees is necessary. If necessary, focused training and tools to increase success must be included in the process.

The second step is to discuss operational challenges that the implementation process will face. During this step, it is important to consider operational problems within the company and how they impact production, staff, customers and the bottom line. To add to the above, the following questions may be asked; if certain problems keep cropping up in the organisation, and what opportunities could the company take advantage of this if it want to be more productive?

The third and final step is for the management to know the company real information and numbers. The management needs to know accurate financial and operational data to compare how well the company is doing against similar companies and identify problems.

To add to this, during the implementation process or just before, the assessment and the benchmarking of the company performance on efficiency is imperative. The goal should be to figure out how the company performance compares to that of other companies in the industry and identify priority problem areas. And then, the management must target processes that add no value, by getting rid of waste wherever it can be found in the business, including the following: overproduction, idle machines or employees, unnecessary operations or employee effort, excessive inventory, poor product design or quality, inefficient work station arrangement, and inadequate employee training. The management must not blame staff for problems and mistakes; instead it must focus on how to improve processes; eliminate obstacles and sources of error; and help employees do their jobs better.

Keywords: Efficiency, performance, benchmark, organisation

Suggested Citation:

Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Kingsly, Mau and Feussi, Polycarpe, Challenges in Setting Up Efficiency Drive within Modern Organizations (January 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2710108
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
893
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies