Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Islamic Values on Voluntary Corporate Governance Disclosure: The Case of Saudi Listed Firms

Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research, January 2016, Forthcoming

28 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2016

Waleed AI-Bassam

University of Glasgow

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: January 5, 2016

Abstract

Purpose – The study examines the effect of Islamic values on the extent of voluntary corporate governance (CG) disclosure. In addition, we investigate the effect of traditional ownership structure and CG mechanisms on the extent of voluntary CG disclosure.

Design/methodology/approach – We distinctively construct Islamic values and voluntary CG disclosure indices using a sample of 75 Saudi listed firms over a seven-year period in conducting multivariate regressions of the effect of Islamic values on the extent of voluntary CG disclosure. Our analyses are robust to controlling for firm-level characteristics, fixed-effects, endogeneities and alternative measures.

Findings – We find that corporations that depict greater commitment towards incorporating Islamic values into their operations through high Islamic values disclosure index score engage in higher voluntary CG disclosures than those that are not. Additionally, we find that audit firm size, board size, government ownership, institutional ownership and the presence of a CG committee are positively associated with the level of voluntary CG disclosure, whilst block ownership is negatively associated with the extent of voluntary CG disclosure.

Practical implications – Our study has clear practical implications for future research, practice and broader society by demonstrating empirically that corporations that voluntarily incorporate Islamic values into their operations are more likely to be transparent about their CG practices, and thereby providing new crucial insights on the effect of Islamic values on voluntary CG compliance and disclosure.

Originality – To the best of our knowledge, this is the first empirical attempt at explicitly examining the effect of Islamic values on the extent of voluntary CG disclosure. We also offer evidence on the effect of traditional CG and ownership structures on the extent of voluntary CG disclosure.

Keywords: Islamic values, corporate governance, Ownership structure, Voluntary disclosure, Saudi Arabia

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

AI-Bassam, Waleed and Ntim, Collins G., The Effect of Islamic Values on Voluntary Corporate Governance Disclosure: The Case of Saudi Listed Firms (January 5, 2016). Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research, January 2016, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2711336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
O Abdelsalam , D Street
Corporate governance and the timeliness of corporate internet reporting by U.K. listed companies
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 130 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Abu-Tapanjeh
Corporate governance from the Islamic perspective: A comparative analysis with OECD principles
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 556 - 567 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance. Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
W Albassam
Corporate Governance, Voluntary Disclosure and Financial Performance: An Empirical Analysis of Saudi Listed Firms Using A Mixed-Methods Research Design Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,963
RANK
244,478
1 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies