Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Organizational Identity and Professional Norm Salience on Internal Auditors’ Assessments of Internal Control Weaknesses

2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

36 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2016 Last revised: 25 Mar 2016

Ian Thomas Burt

Niagara University - Department of Accounting

Theresa Libby

Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting - University of Central Florida

Date Written: January 6, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether internal auditors with a strong organizational identity, defined as a perceived close relationship between the individual and their employer, provide overly lenient assessments of identified internal control weaknesses as compared to internal auditors whose organizational identity is weak and as compared to a control group of external auditors. We also examine whether increasing the salience of professional norms, that is, increasing the prominence in the internal auditors’ judgment process of information about the expectations of the professional group to which they belong, reduces bias in the internal auditors’ assessment of internal control weaknesses when their organizational identity is strong and whether external auditors who are aware that the internal auditor is adhering to the norms of their professional organization are more willing to rely on the internal auditor’s work. Results indicate that internal auditors with strong organizational identity provide internal control assessments that are less severe than internal auditors whose organizational identity is low, but when professional norms are made salient, internal auditors with strong organizational identity provide the most severe ratings. In addition, we find that external auditors who are aware the internal auditor adheres to professional norms are more willing to rely on the internal auditor’s control assessments. Implications of our results for the debate about the benefits and costs of in-house versus out-sourced internal auditors are discussed.

Keywords: internal audit, organizational identity, professional norms

Suggested Citation:

Burt, Ian Thomas and Libby, Theresa, The Impact of Organizational Identity and Professional Norm Salience on Internal Auditors’ Assessments of Internal Control Weaknesses (January 6, 2016). 2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2711901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2711901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,716
RANK
318,538
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies