Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Commonality in News Around the World

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), 2015

58 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2016 Last revised: 9 Jan 2016

Tung Lam Dang

The University of Danang

Fariborz Moshirian

Institute of Global Finance, UNSW Business School

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Date Written: January 6, 2016

Abstract

Motivated by the pioneering study of Morck, Yeung, and Yu (2000), this paper investigates whether and how news commonality varies according to a country’s institutional environments. Using a unique global news data set across 41 countries for the 2000-2009 period, we document three notable findings. First, firm-level news comoves more in countries with weaker institutional environments than in those with stronger institutional environments. Second, news commonality is positively associated with both stock return comovement and stock liquidity commonality. Third, the effect of news commonality on stock return and liquidity comovement is higher in countries with stronger institutions than in those with weaker institutions. These results suggest that a country’s institutional environments affect firm-specific information production and, more importantly, support the information-efficiency view that lower price synchronicity is caused by greater capitalization of firm-specific information.

Keywords: News commonality, information production, institutional environments, stock return comovement, stock liquidity commonality

JEL Classification: G14, G15, G18

Suggested Citation:

Dang, Tung Lam and Moshirian, Fariborz and Zhang, Bohui, Commonality in News Around the World (January 6, 2016). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2711726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2711726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
S M Bartram , G Brown , R M Stulz
Why are U.S. stocks more volatile?
Journal of Finance , volume 67 , p. 1329 - 1370 Posted: 2012
Crossref
T Beck , G Clarke , A Groff , P Keefer , P Walsh
New tools in comparative political economy: the database of political institutions
World Bank Economic Review , volume 15 , p. 165 - 176 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Boudoukh , R Feldman , S Kogan , M Richardson
Which news moves stock prices? A textual analysis Posted: 2013
Crossref
P Brockman , D Y Chung , C Pérignon
Commonality in liquidity: a global perspective
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 44 , p. 851 - 882 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,415
RANK
187,924
42 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies