Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Taxes in the Disconnect between Corporate Performance and Economic Growth

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 16-6

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 18-006

48 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2016 Last revised: 15 Feb 2019

Urooj Khan

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Suresh Nallareddy

University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Ethan Rouen

Harvard Business School

Date Written: February 10, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the relation between corporate performance and overall economic growth in the United States. In particular, we focus on the impact of the U.S. corporate tax regime on this relation. Exploiting time-series variation and a tax shock, we document that the relatively higher corporate income tax rate and the tax treatment of foreign earnings of U.S. corporations have contributed to a disconnect between the performance of the corporate sector and the overall economy. Specifically, the growth of domestic (national) corporate profits, on average, has outpaced the growth of the domestic (national) economy, and this disconnect increases as the difference between the U.S. corporate income tax rate and the average tax rate of the other OECD countries increases. The underlying mechanism is fewer corporate profits being channeled into subsequent domestic investments when the U.S. tax rate is relatively higher, leading to lower economic growth. Our findings have implications for policy setters.

Keywords: Taxes, economic growth, GDP, corporate profits, American Jobs Creation Act of 2004

JEL Classification: E20, H25, K34, O10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Urooj and Nallareddy, Suresh and Rouen, Ethan, The Role of Taxes in the Disconnect between Corporate Performance and Economic Growth (February 10, 2019). Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 16-6, Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 18-006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2712582 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2712582
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Scott Dyreng , Bradley P. Lindsey
Using Financial Accounting Data to Examine the Effect of Foreign Operations Located in Tax Havens and Other Countries on US Multinational Firms' Tax Rates
Pages: 51 Posted: 20 Jan 2009 Last revised: 20 Apr 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Dyreng , B Lindsey , J Thornock
Exploring the role Delaware plays as a domestic tax haven
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 108 , p. 751 - 772 Posted: 2013
Crossref
The Economist. 2016. The problem with profits Posted: 2014-10-25
A Edwards , T Kravet , R Wilson
Trapped cash and the profitability of foreign acquisitions
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
760
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,035
RANK
76,086
2 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies