Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Evidence on the Role of the Media in Corporate Social Responsibility

Journal of Business Ethics

53 Pages Posted: 8 Jan 2016 Last revised: 7 Mar 2023

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Robert C. Nash

Wake Forest University

Ajay Patel

Wake Forest University, School of Business

Date Written: June 7, 2016

Abstract

Prior research suggests that the media plays an important information intermediary role in capital markets. We investigate the role of the media in influencing firms’ engagement in corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. Using a large sample of 4,396 unique firms from 42 countries over the period 2003 to 2012, we find strong evidence that firms engage in more CSR activities if located in countries where the media has more freedom. This relation is robust to using various proxies for media freedom, an alternative source of CSR data, and to applying the instrumental variables approach to address endogeneity. In additional analyses, we find that the positive relation between media freedom and CSR engagement is stronger for better governed firms and for larger firms. Since the media have the ability to impact reputational capital, we conclude that media freedom affects firms’ incentives to engage in costly CSR activities.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility; Media Freedom; Corporate Governance; Corporate Reputation

JEL Classification: G34; M14

Suggested Citation:

El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Nash, Robert C. and Patel, Ajay, New Evidence on the Role of the Media in Corporate Social Responsibility (June 7, 2016). Journal of Business Ethics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2712239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2712239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
W Aerts , D Cormier , M Magnan
Intra-industry imitation in corporate environmental reporting: An international perspective
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 299 - 231 Posted: 2006
J Atanassov , E Kim
Labor and corporate governance: International evidence from restructuring decisions
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 341 - 373 Posted: 2009
N Attig , N Boubakri , S El Ghoul , O Guedhami
Firm internationalization and corporate social responsibility
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2015
P Bansal , I Clelland
Talking trash: Legitimacy, impression management and unsystematic risk in the context of the natural environment
Academy of Management Journal , volume 47 , p. 93 - 103 Posted: 2004
Load more
2 Citations
Seraina C. Anagnostopoulou , Argyro Avgoustaki
The Impact of Human Resource Practices on Corporate Investment Efficiency
International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming · 49 Pages · Posted: 30 Mar 2020 · Last revised: 11 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 369
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ritwik Banerjee , Amadou Boly , Robert Gillanders
Is Corruption Distasteful or Just Another Cost of Business?
30 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2020 · Downloads: 131
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
712
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,812
RANK
82,934
2 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies