Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seeking Out Non-Public Information: Sell-Side Analysts and the Freedom of Information Act

The Accounting Review, forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2016 Last revised: 7 Dec 2019

April Klein

New York University (NYU); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Tao Li

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Bobo Zhang

NEOMA Business School - Department of Finance

Date Written: January 1, 2019

Abstract

A number of sell-side healthcare analysts gain access to information outside the purview of management through Freedom of Information Act requests to the Food and Drug Administration for records on factory inspections, complaints, and drug and medical device applications. Using a difference-in-differences methodology, we find that buy (sell) recommendations and upgrades (downgrades) earn higher (lower) stock returns over the year following the receipt of FDA records. We also examine the type of information revealed in FDA factory inspection reports, and find that analysts are less likely to downgrade and are less pessimistic in their recommendations than the consensus recommendation when the information contained in the FDA report is not particularly severe. Our findings are consistent with a subset of analysts utilizing non-public information channels independent of management to gain value-relevant information about their covered firms.

Keywords: Sell-side analysts, Non-public information, Freedom of Information Act, Stock recommendations

JEL Classification: G14, G24, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Klein, April and Li, Tao and Zhang, Bobo, Seeking Out Non-Public Information: Sell-Side Analysts and the Freedom of Information Act (January 1, 2019). The Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2714551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2714551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
701
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,318
RANK
84,484
11 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies