Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Societal Trust on CEO Compensation

42 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2016

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Rahman Khokhar

Saint Mary's University, Canada - Department of Finance, Information Systems & Management Science

Amin Mawani

York University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 12, 2015

Abstract

We examine the association between societal trust and the levels of CEO compensation and the proportion of equity-based compensation of 1,892 firm-years from 22 countries over the 2007-2013 period. We find both the levels of CEO compensation as well as the proportion of equity-based compensation to be lower in countries with higher levels of societal trust. This suggests that costly regulations on CEO compensation may not be as necessary in jurisdictions with higher levels of societal trust. We also examine the association between pay disparity and societal trust. Consistent with our finding of lower pay at the CEO rank, we find pay disparities are lower in countries with higher levels of societal trust.

Keywords: Trust, CEO pay, Culture, Income disparity

JEL Classification: J33, M52

Suggested Citation:

Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Khokhar, Abdul Rahman and Mawani, Amin, Impact of Societal Trust on CEO Compensation (October 12, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2714557 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2714557
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,410
RANK
531,260
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies