Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Responses to the Repatriation Incentive and Domestic Production Activities Deduction of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004

2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

50 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2016

Michael Kinney

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Harrison Liu

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 12, 2016

Abstract

The 2004 American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA or the Act) was intended to encourage U.S. companies to repatriate foreign earnings and invest them domestically to increase capital spending and employment. We investigate combined effects of two tax provisions, i.e., the repatriation tax holiday and the domestic production activities deduction (DPAD) on domestic investment and payout behaviors. In doing so, we sort repatriating firms based on tightness of capital constraints. We find that the two tax incentives fail to induce non-constrained, repatriating firms benefiting from DPAD to reinvest the capital domestically. Only capital-constrained, repatriating firms benefiting from DPAD increase domestic investment and reduce share repurchases; however, these firms increase cash dividends. Our findings should be useful to policy makers in their considerations to modify the corporate tax structure to increase domestic investment by encouraging U.S. firms to repatriate foreign earnings and reinvest them domestically.

Keywords: American Jobs Creation Act, Repatriation, Domestic production activities duduction, tax

Suggested Citation:

Kinney, Michael R. and Liu, Harrison, Corporate Responses to the Repatriation Incentive and Domestic Production Activities Deduction of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (January 12, 2016). 2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2714565 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2714565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,124
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies