Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconsidering Realization-Based Accounting for Equity Compensation

Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 16-03

50 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2016 Last revised: 29 Aug 2016

David I. Walker

Boston University School of Law

Date Written: August 29, 2016

Abstract

The U.S. equity compensation landscape continues to evolve. Recent innovations have improved the linkage between pay and firm-specific performance, but have added complexity. Against that backdrop, this Article urges reconsideration of the accounting rules for equity pay. Under current rules, most equity pay awards are expensed based on grant date valuation with no updating for changes in value post grant. This Article advocates the adoption of a mark-to-market or realization-based approach under which the expense recorded for all equity pay awards would ultimately be trued to the value received by employees. Increasingly, equity pay awards are more analogous to commissions than to arm’s length investments, and the tighter link between pay and firm-specific performance suggests that including post-grant changes in equity pay award values in compensation expense tends to improve accuracy, not just add noise. In addition, increased complexity leads to greater ex ante valuation uncertainty and gaming opportunities, suggesting de-emphasizing reliance on ex ante measurement to the extent possible. Realization-based accounting also produces book/tax conformity for equity pay, which further combats gaming, and it levels the accounting playing field for equity instruments, minimizing accounting-induced distortions in pay design. The Article also argues that concerns that realization-based accounting will add an unacceptable level of uncertainty or volatility into compensation expense can be mitigated.

JEL Classification: G34, J33, K22, K34, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Walker, David I., Reconsidering Realization-Based Accounting for Equity Compensation (August 29, 2016). Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 16-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
See Walker, supra note 41 , p. 14 - 25
See Walker, supra note 41 , p. 14 - 25
See Walker, supra note 41 , p. 14 - 25
See Walker , ; Bodie , Al
Although there are complicating factors, earnings per share (EPS) is essentially the net income available to common shareholders divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the relevant period. As such, it is an accounting measure of performance. SCHROEDER ET AL., supra note 6, at 197. Total shareholder return for a period is the sum of the change in the value of a firm's common shares and per share dividends paid over that period, normally expressed as a percentage of share value at the beginning of the relevant period. It is a market measure of performance
INVESTMENTS 45 , p. 14 - 25 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,760
RANK
459,150
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University School of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies