Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and Investment Efficiency -- The Changes of the Mandatory Dividends Payment

43 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2016

Raymond Siu Yeung Chan

Hong Kong Baptist University

Byron Y. Song

Hong Kong Baptist University

Lu Fan

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: January 13, 2016

Abstract

This paper demonstrates important interactions between dividend policy and investment efficiency. We find that dividend payout can improve investment efficiency, especially can mitigate over-investment. Prior research shows that dividend payout help mitigate over-investment problem (Biddle, Hilary, and Verdi, 2009). However, firms with low investment discretionary may be maturer, have rich cash flows, and prefer to issue dividends. We use a setting to solve this problem. In 2006, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) issues documents and declares that firms need to issue at least 20% of their net profit as cash dividends accumulatively in continuous three years before refinancing. In 2008, this rate increases to 30%. We find the negative effect of dividend on over-investment is more significant after 2006. Because this regulation is associated with refinancing, we use cross-sectional analysis to compare firms with and without refinancing activities. This can exclude the effect of the macroeconomic factors and other regulation factors. We find that firms with refinancing activities have negative effect on the depressant effect of dividend payout on over-investment. This effect is more significant after 2006. This mitigating effect is mainly affected by the shock in 2006, when the refinancing activities are first linked to a certain amount of dividend payments. Besides, we also find that the larger size of refinancing, the more negative effect on the depressant effect of dividend payout on over-investment is. Larger size of refinancing means that firms are more likely to have larger investment projects. Those kinds of firms really need cash to catch the investment opportunities. At that time, CSRC asks them to issue at least 20% of net profit as cash dividends can attenuate the over-investment more pronouncedly. These policy events provide exogenous shocks, which can attenuate the endogeneity concern. Our finding is consistent with prior the research (Biddle et al., 2009). It is robust when we use different model to estimate investment residual and after other robust tests. After analyzing, we can conclude that dividend payout can alleviate over-investment.

Keywords: dividend payout; investment efficiency; over-investment

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Raymond Siu Yeung and Song, Byron Y. and Fan, Lu, Dividend Policy and Investment Efficiency -- The Changes of the Mandatory Dividends Payment (January 13, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
504
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,286
RANK
128,423
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies