Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Efficient Contracting or Rent Seeking for Long-Tenured CEOs

52 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2016

Yoshie Saito

City University of New York (CUNY) - Koppelman School of Business

Date Written: January 14, 2016

Abstract

Uncertainty about a CEO’s ability is related to his/her length of service to a firm. Accordingly, monitoring systems should vary depending upon CEOs’ tenure. Long-tenured CEOs require less monitoring because their ability has been revealed over time. However, as CEOs advance in their careers, they are more likely to acquire power to influence board decisions. To analyze this implication, I examine whether the competing rent-seeking or efficient contracting hypotheses can explain long-tenured executives’ disposal decisions. I use the previously reported differential sensitivity of CEO cash compensation to income-increasing and -decreasing discontinued operations. Contrary to prior findings, I find that cash compensation for long-tenured CEOs is positively associated with both income-decreasing and -increasing discontinued operations. These results suggest that compensation committees provide opportunities for them to demonstrate their abilities, and these executives are willing to swallow the one-time negative effect to improve future operating performance. Therefore, my results for long-tenured CEOs support the efficient contracting hypothesis. I also analyze whether market participants scrutinize CEOs’ disposal decisions, and find that they react favorably to managerial decisions on both income-increasing and -decreasing DCs, consistent with the notion that they view these DCs as value-enhancing activities. Lastly, the post-period analysis shows that income-decreasing DCs improve future firm performance, and there is no evidence that income-increasing DCs cause long-term detrimental effects. These findings are consistent with the notion that boards implement systems that force long-tenured CEOs to continue to demonstrate their ability to make value-enhancing decisions.

Keywords: Long-tenured CEO, Cash Compensation, Efficient contract, rent seeking

JEL Classification: M52 M41 J33

Suggested Citation:

Saito, Yoshie, Efficient Contracting or Rent Seeking for Long-Tenured CEOs (January 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,283
RANK
708,207
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies