Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Internal Control Weaknesses on Pension Assumptions Manipulation

2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

51 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2016 Last revised: 14 Mar 2016

Seokyoun Hwang

CUNY, College of Staten Island

Bharat Sarath

Rutgers University

Date Written: January 13, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the effect of internal control weaknesses (ICWs) on managers’ choice of pension assumptions, using data disclosed under Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 from 2004 to 2012. We hypothesize that firms with ICWs are better able to opportunistically set pension assumptions, such as the expected rate of return (ERR) and the discount rate (DR), which in turn help to report higher earnings or healthier balance sheets. First, we find that firms tend to report higher ERR and DR when they receive an adverse audit opinion on internal control. In addition, we find that the firms facing more incentives to manage the funding status of pension plan are likely to choose higher DR in response to the incentives. Next, we find that firms with ICWs are more likely to adjust their biased ERR when they receive an unqualified audit opinion on internal control. Finally, we find that market returns are significantly negative for the firms assuming higher ERR in the 3-day window around the disclosure of material weaknesses if the firms’ earnings are sensitive to the changed ERR.

Keywords: pension assumptions, discount rate, expected rate of return, earnings management, internal control weaknesses

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hwang, Seokyoun and Sarath, Bharat Sarrukai, The Impact of Internal Control Weaknesses on Pension Assumptions Manipulation (January 13, 2016). 2016 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715182 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715182
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,726
RANK
785,362
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies