Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Pension Asset Allocation and Expected Rate of Return Management

56 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2016

Seokyoun Hwang

CUNY, College of Staten Island

Bharat Sarath

Rutgers University

Date Written: November 27, 2015

Abstract

This study examines whether expected rate of return (ERR) manipulation is related to disclosure of pension asset allocation. FAS 132R(1), which requires firms to disaggregate the detailed categories of pension asset allocation, provides a natural experiment for studying the effect of enhanced transparency on firm behavior. We posit that firms discretionarily assume higher ERR by using the opaque disclosure under the old standard, and adjust biased ERR downward under the greater reporting transparency. The hand-collected data allow us to identify the extent of disclosure variation under the two different reporting regimes. We find that opaque disclosure of plan asset allocation is associated with ERR management. Specifically, for firms with poor disclosure, mandated transparency in pension asset allocation plays a vital role in reducing the ERR management. We also find that ERR management is facilitated by the opaque disclosure even under the new reporting regime. Particularly, we find that firms tend to assume higher ERR through the opaque disclosure when they disaggregate the indirectly invested funds with no description of underlying asset classes.

Keywords: pension assumptions, expected rate of return, earnings management, disclosure, pension asset allocation

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hwang, Seokyoun and Sarath, Bharat Sarrukai, Disclosure of Pension Asset Allocation and Expected Rate of Return Management (November 27, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
E Amir , S Benartzi
The expected rate of return on pension funds and asset allocation as predictors of portfolio performance
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 2 Posted: 1998
E Amir , Y Guan , D Oswald
The effect of pension accounting on corporate pension asset allocation
Review of accounting studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Asthana
Earnings management, expected returns on pension assets, and resource allocation decisions
Journal of pension economics and finance , volume 7 , issue 2 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P G Berger , R Hann
The impact of SFAS No. 131 on information and monitoring
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 223 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,423
RANK
765,896
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies