Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influencing Factors on Earnings Management, Empirical Evidence from Listed German and Austrian Companies

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research Volume 8, Issue 2 (October 2015)

18 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2016

Thomas Dilger

University of Innsbruck

Sabine Graschitz

University of Innsbruck

Date Written: January 14, 2016

Abstract

Purpose – Since the 1960s earnings management has been a widely researched area and became presumably known by the current accounting scandals. This paper aims at empirically showing which factors affect earnings management.

Design/methodology/approach – According to former research literature factors are derived, which might influence the companies' earnings management behavior. These factors are the applied accounting standard, the industry sector and the country of official quotation. Although several measurements for earnings management like abnormal accruals or income smoothing exist, this paper is predominantly using the distribution of net income scaled by total assets (RoA) respectively total sales (RoS) as earnings management measure. These earnings management measures have been selected as they can measure the frequency of earnings management in reality and no estimates are necessary.

Findings – In general, analyses show that the distribution in earnings management intervals differ from the total population. Most noteworthy is that by adoption of principle-based accounting standards (IFRS/US-GAAP), in case of this study no differences of earnings quality was observable. The other two variables yield in mixed results due to the robustness checks, which indeed questions the scaling variables for data-sets including the financial industries.

Research limitations/implications – First, according to the chosen measurement parameter no distinct assertion concerning the reasons for execution or non-execution of earnings management can be deduced. Second, the method of earnings management's identification is not dividable and therefore real-, accounting-, legal- and illegal-earnings management cannot be identified. Third, the research results are just partially generalizable concerning representativity (e.g. other countries, non-market listed companies) and taken for granted just for similar data-sets.

Originality/value – Although prior studies presume a rise in earnings quality, which indicates a decrease in earnings management by the adoption of principle-based accounting standards (IFRS/US-GAAP) in comparison to national GAAP, there is no difference or superior accounting standard identifiable through the results.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Accounting Standards, Scaling Variables, Earnings Distribution

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Dilger, Thomas and Graschitz, Sabine, Influencing Factors on Earnings Management, Empirical Evidence from Listed German and Austrian Companies (January 14, 2016). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research Volume 8, Issue 2 (October 2015) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
W H Beaver , M F Mcnichols , K K Nelson
An Alternative Interpretation of the Discontinuity in Earnings Distributions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 12 , p. 525 - 556 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C Beuselinck , M Deloof
Earnings Management in Business Groups: Tax Incentives or Expropriation Concealment?
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 49 , p. 27 - 52 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C H Bouwman
Managerial optimism and earnings smoothing
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 41 , p. 283 - 303 Posted: 2014
Crossref
A Bühl
PASW: Einführung in die moderne Datenanalyse Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,281
RANK
167,622
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies