Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Corporate Tax Reductions Real Benefits Under Imputation Systems?

40 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2016

Chia-Wen Chang

Department of Accounting, Ming Chuan University

Ming-Chin Chen

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Vincent Chen

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 17, 2016

Abstract

Imputation systems integrate corporate and shareholder personal income taxes to alleviate double taxation of dividend income. In this study, we empirically examine whether a corporate tax rate reduction under an imputation tax system benefits shareholders. Using Taiwan as a setting, our analyses indicate that decreasing the corporate tax rate is associated with an increase in dividend payout ratio and foreign investment. Moreover, the increase in dividend payout ratio is even greater for firms that have a higher increase in foreign ownership. Additionally, the market reacts positively to an announcement of a tax rate reduction; specifically, positive stock price reactions are stronger for firms that experienced a greater increase in foreign ownership in response to the tax rate reduction, for firms with greater liquidity constraints and more growth opportunities before the tax rate reduction, and for firms with a bigger decrease in effective tax rates after the tax rate reduction. Overall, we provide evidence that a tax rate reduction is associated with economic impacts and that foreign shareholders appear to be the main beneficiaries of a tax rate reduction under an imputation tax system.

Keywords: Imputation Tax Systems, Tax Reduction, Foreign Investment, Corporate Dividend Policy

JEL Classification: H25, K34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Chia-Wen and Chen, Ming-Chin and Chen, Vincent, Are Corporate Tax Reductions Real Benefits Under Imputation Systems? (January 17, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2716942 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2716942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Agrawal , N Jayaraman
The dividend policies of all equity firms: a direct test of free cash flow theory. Managerial Decision Economics , volume 15 , p. 139 - 148 Posted: 1994
Crossref
F Allen , A E Bernardo , I Welch
A theory of dividends based on tax clienteles
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Bajaj , A M Vijh
Dividend clienteles and the information content of dividend changes
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 26 Posted: 1990
Crossref
E L Black , J Legoria , K F Sellers
Capital investment effects of dividend imputation
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 40 - 59 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,803
RANK
467,197
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies