Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR, Market Supervisions and Learning Effect

Posted: 10 Aug 2021

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: January 17, 2016

Abstract

Corporate social responsibility disclosure (CSR) is a crucial business practice that has attracted the attention of companies and market participants all over the world. CSR practice can attract more market supervisions, which will put more pressure on managers and auditors to learn from each other, and can reflect higher comparability of financial information to a certain extent. This paper examines the impact of CSR on learning effect. Specifically, this study investigates two main topics: (1) whether CSR leads to learning effect, and (2) whether market supervisions (i.e., liquidity and investor concerns) caused by changes in CSR are the potential channels through which CSR affects learning effect. The results reveal that after controlling for other factors that affect learning effect, active CSR practice leads to effective improvement in learning effect. The aforementioned two market supervisions are critical channels through which CSR significantly promotes the learning effect; liquidity is the more dominant channel of influence among them. This observation indicates that CSR participation is a tool to elicit market supervision and to improve the learning effect. These results remain robust after considering other proxies and endogenous issues of CSR and learning effect indicators.

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Kung-Cheng, CSR, Market Supervisions and Learning Effect (January 17, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2717241
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
394
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies