Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The influence of green innovation on disclosure quality: The mediation role of media attention

Technological Forecasting and Social Change, forthcoming

Posted: 3 Sep 2021 Last revised: 15 Mar 2023

Kung-Cheng (恭政) Ho (何)

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law; Fuzhou University of International Studies and Trade; Guangdong University of Finance and Economics

Xixi Shen

Independent

Cheng Yan

Huazhong University of Science and Technology - School of Management

Xiang Hu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 19, 2016

Abstract

The importance of green innovation has been underlined by the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26). This study examines the data from Chinese listed companies for the years from 2003 to 2019 to investigate the effect of corporate green innovation behavior on information disclosure decisions, thereby clarifying how the outcomes of green innovation influence internal corporate decision-making. The results indicate that green innovation motivates companies to disclose high-quality information. In addition, after considering potential endogenous interferences and performing several robustness tests, this study obtains consistent results. It also reveals that media attention is a crucial mechanism that enables green innovation to enhance the quality of information disclosure. The effect of green innovation on disclosure quality also exhibits industry heterogeneity. Therefore, the guiding of media attention and policies on the basis of industry characteristics is also a key component in the development of green innovation.

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Kung-Cheng and Shen, Xixi and Yan, Cheng and Hu, Xiang, The influence of green innovation on disclosure quality: The mediation role of media attention (January 19, 2016). Technological Forecasting and Social Change, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2718043
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies