Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO's Inside Debt and Dynamics of Capital Structure

Financial Management, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2016 Last revised: 22 Dec 2016

Eric R. Brisker

The University of Akron

Wei Wang

Cleveland State University

Date Written: August 17, 2016

Abstract

Debt-type compensation (i.e., inside debt) exacerbates the divergence in risk preference between the CEO and shareholders that in turn affects the firm’s capital structure decisions. An excessively risk-averse CEO uses debt that falls short of the shareholders’ desired level, and is eager to lower the debt ratio when the firm is over-levered but reluctant to enhance the debt ratio when the firm is under-levered. We find that higher CEO inside debt ratio is associated with lower firm debt ratio and faster (slower) leverage adjustments toward the shareholders’ desired level for over-levered (under-levered) firms. The CEO inside debt ratio most conducive to optimal capital structure dynamics is around 10 percent of the firm’s market debt ratio.

Keywords: inside debt, capital structure, shareholders’ desired leverage, speed of adjustment (SOA), managerial conservatism, risk-shifting

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Brisker, Eric R. and Wang, Wei, CEO's Inside Debt and Dynamics of Capital Structure (August 17, 2016). Financial Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2718498 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2718498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M C Jensen , W H Meckling
Theory of the firm: Managerial behavior, agency costs and ownership structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 3 , p. 305 - 360 Posted: 1976
Crossref
William A Klein , John C Coffee
Business Organization and Finance: Legal and Economic Principles , volume 6 , p. 266 - 67 Posted: 1996
R Korajczyk , A Levy
Capital structure choice: Macroeconomic conditions and financial constraints
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , p. 75 - 109 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M L Lemmon , M R Roberts , J F Zender
Back to the beginning: Persistence and the cross-section of corporate capital structure
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 1575 - 1608 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,724
RANK
250,789
3 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies