Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Performance and Risk-Taking – Does Directors’ Busyness Matter?

38 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2016 Last revised: 24 Apr 2017

Shawgat Kutubi

La Trobe Univeristy

Kamran Ahmed

La Trobe Business School, La Trobe University

Hayat Khan

La Trobe University; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 21, 2016

Abstract

This paper extends the literature on busyness of directors (board) and bank performance on emerging markets. We argue that a quadratic model parsimoniously captures the tension between the ‘reputation hypothesis’ and ‘over-boarding hypothesis. We find a robust inverted u-shaped relationship between inside directors’ busyness. Independent directors’ busyness on the other hand does not have any impact on performance. We calculate the optimal level of busyness. The inverted u-shaped relationship shows that the reputation hypothesis dominates the over-boarding hypothesis at less than the optimal level of busyness and vice versa. This allows us to reconcile the mixed evidence in the literature on busyness and performance. We also find some evidence that inside directors’ busyness reduces risk whereas independent directors’ busyness increases risk.

Keywords: Busy Directors, Independent Directors, Inside Directors, Bank Performance and Risk, Emerging Markets

Suggested Citation:

Kutubi, Shawgat and Ahmed, Kamran and Khan, Hayat, Bank Performance and Risk-Taking – Does Directors’ Busyness Matter? (January 21, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2719440 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2719440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
R Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A concenptual farmework and survey
J. Econ. Liter , volume 1 , issue 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
J. Financ , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R B Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
J. Financ Interm , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
Crossref
H Ahmed , A Gábor
An examination of the relationship of governance structure and performance: Evidence from banking companies in Bangladesh
Socie. Econ , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 643 - 666 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
905
RANK
735,901
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies