Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audits and Bank Failure: Do Financial Statement Audits Reduce Losses to Capital Providers?

50 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2016 Last revised: 4 Feb 2016

Jane Barton

City University of New York (CUNY) - Stan Ross Department of Accountancy

Leslie D. Hodder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Marcy L. Shepardson

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 28, 2015

Abstract

We assess whether financial statement audits reduce the risk of losses to capital providers. Prior research documents a negative association between financial statement audits and perceived credit risk or interest costs, but surprisingly few studies assess whether lower perceived risk or interest costs are associated with fewer adverse risk-related operational outcomes, such as defaults. Using a sample of small, privately held commercial and savings banks subject to failure during the crisis years, and operationalizing default as failures resulting in losses to the FDIC insurance fund, we find firms having mandatory or voluntary financial statement audits are 33% to 50% less likely to experience defaults, compared to samples of unaudited firms, including samples matched on propensity to obtain an audit. These results are consistent with audited firms posing less default risk to creditors. That both mandatory and voluntary audits are negatively associated with failure after matching on other firm characteristics suggests the benefits of audits are not limited to voluntary audit regimes. Finding the presence of an audit is associated with a reduction in failure outcomes is important for regulators and other stakeholders as they weigh costs and benefits of mandatory audits.

Keywords: audits; default risk; bank failure

Suggested Citation:

Barton, Jane and Davis Hodder, Leslie D. and Shepardson, Marcy L., Audits and Bank Failure: Do Financial Statement Audits Reduce Losses to Capital Providers? (December 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2719198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2719198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why Do Private Companies Demand Auditing? A Case for Organizational Loss of Control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance , volume 8 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Navneet Arora , Scott Anthony Richardson , Ayse Irem Tuna
Asset Measurement Uncertainty and Credit Term Structure
Pages: 47 Posted: 6 Apr 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,792
RANK
249,893
2 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies