Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Burden of Regulation – Exploring Macroeconomic and Institutional Ties with the Demand for Accounting Services

23 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2016

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Marcus Bravidor

University of Freiburg; Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf

Date Written: January 20, 2016

Abstract

We empirically analyze the determinants of regulatory costs associated with accounting, audit and tax rules in the European Union. Regulatory costs include transfer payments from losers to beneficiaries of such legislation. Hence, building upon a novel dataset, we estimate regulatory costs as the actual revenues earned from accounting, audit and tax advisory services. Potential determinants include governance mechanisms, financing sources as well as country-specific tax and audit requirements. Our results indicate that regulatory cost strongly depend on the economy’s size. However, their share of GDP decreases in larger economies. We find further evidence that large companies bear the majority of regulatory costs. Strong governance and enforcement institutions cannot fully compensate this effect. Competitive income tax systems do not lower regulatory costs, indicating tax advisory as the “price tag” of maximizing tax benefits.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Regulatory Costs, Compliance Costs, Audit, Taxation, Legal Enforcement, European Union

JEL Classification: G18, G30, K22, K34, L51, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Loy, Thomas R. and Bravidor, Marcus, The Financial Burden of Regulation – Exploring Macroeconomic and Institutional Ties with the Demand for Accounting Services (January 20, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2719067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2719067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Z.-V Palmrose
Audit fees and auditor size: Further evidence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 97 - 110 Posted: 1986
Crossref
R Posner
Theories of economic regulation
Bell Journal of Economics and Management Science , volume 5 , p. 335 - 358 Posted: 1974
Crossref
K Pomerleau , A Lundeen
International tax competitiveness index Posted: 2014
Crossref
C Sandford , M Godwin , P Hardwick
Administrative and compliance costs of taxation Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,420
RANK
392,891
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies