Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Regime Changes and Acquisition Attributes: The Case of Commercial Bank and Thrift Acquisitions of Thrifts

Cebenoyan, F., A.S. Cebenoyan and E. S. Cooperman; Regulatory Regime Changes and Acquisition Attributes: The Case of Commercial Bank and Thrift Acquisitions of Thrifts; Quarterly Journal of Finance and Accounting, V 47 (1), 2008, pp. 27-52.

38 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2016

Fatma Cebenoyan

City University of New York, CUNY Hunter College - Department of Economics

A. Sinan Cebenoyan

New York University (NYU) - Department of Finance; Hofstra University - Frank G. Zarb School of Business

Elizabeth S. Cooperman

University of Colorado Denver

Date Written: January 20, 2016

Abstract

Significant change in regulations affecting bank/thrift activities during the 1990’s provide us with an opportunity to examine for shifts in acquisition characteristics as deregulation leads to changes in behavior. Consistent with a regime change hypothesis, we find a structural change in acquisition attributes for pre- and post deregulation periods. We also report significant differences in target attributes depending on acquirer identity. Our results demonstrate a higher likelihood in the deregulated period after 1994 for banks to acquire profit inefficient thrifts, while thrift acquirers focus mainly on building size. In contrast, regulatory concerns appear to dominate in prior years, with capitalization as a key acquisition characteristic by thrift acquirers. The results suggest that regimes need to be controlled for in research to allow generalizations beyond period-specific implications.

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Cebenoyan, Fatma and Cebenoyan, Ahmet Sinan and Cooperman, Elizabeth S., Regulatory Regime Changes and Acquisition Attributes: The Case of Commercial Bank and Thrift Acquisitions of Thrifts (January 20, 2016). Cebenoyan, F., A.S. Cebenoyan and E. S. Cooperman; Regulatory Regime Changes and Acquisition Attributes: The Case of Commercial Bank and Thrift Acquisitions of Thrifts; Quarterly Journal of Finance and Accounting, V 47 (1), 2008, pp. 27-52., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2719219
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Jalal D. Akhavein , Allen N. Berger , David B. Humphrey
The Effects of Megamergers on Efficiency and Prices: Evidence from a Bank Profit Function
FEDS Paper Number 97-9 Pages: 66 Posted: 5 Dec 1997
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D J Aigner , C A Lovell , P Schmidt
Formulation and Estimation of Stochastic Frontier Production Function Models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 37 Posted: 1977-07
Crossref
Y Altunbas , S P Chakravarty
Frontier Cost Functions and Bank Efficiency
Economic Letters , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 240 Posted: 2001-08
Crossref
A N Berger , D B Humphrey
Measurement and Efficiency Issues in Commercial Banking
National Bureau of Economic Research , p. 245 - 279 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,186
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies