Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Real Effects Perspective to Accounting Measurement and Disclosure: Implications and Insights for Future Research

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

79 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2016

Chandra Kanodia

University of Minnesota - Carlson School of Management

Haresh Sapra

Booth School of Business, University of Chicago

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 2016

Abstract

Accounting measurement and disclosure rules have a significant impact on the real decisions that firms make. In this essay, we provide an analytical framework to illustrate how such real effects arise. Using this framework, we examine three specific measurement issues that remain controversial: (1) How does the measurement of investments affect a firm’s investment efficiency? (2) How does the measurement and disclosure of a firm’s derivative transactions affect a firm’s choice of intrinsic risk exposures, risk management strategy, and the incentive to speculate? (3) How marking-to-market the asset portfolios of financial institutions could generate pro-cyclical real effects? We draw upon these real effects studies to generate sharper and novel insights that we believe are useful not only for the development of accounting standards but also for guiding future empirical research.

Keywords: Real Effects, Disclosure, Accounting Measurement, Accounting Standards, Transparency, Price Efficiency, Economic Efficiency

JEL Classification: D82, D84, G14, G18, G30, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Kanodia, Chandra and Sapra, Haresh, A Real Effects Perspective to Accounting Measurement and Disclosure: Implications and Insights for Future Research (January 2016). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2721084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
D Aboody , B Lev
The Value-Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1988
Crossref
F Allen , And E Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Anctil , J Dickhaut , C Johnson And C , Kanodia
Does Information Transparency Decrease Coordination Failure
Games and Economic Behavior , volume 70 , p. 228 - 241 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C S Armstrong , W R And J Guay , Weber
The Role of Information and Financial Reporting in Corporate Governance and Debt Contracting
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
889
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,780
RANK
61,583
31 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies