Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosures on Share Prices in Japan and the UK

Corporate Ownership and Control, vol. 13(2), pp. 202-216, Winter 2016

15 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2016

Suzanne Bowerman

University of Auckland

Umesh Prasad Sharma

University of Waikato

Date Written: January 25, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates whether corporate social responsibility disclosure (CSRD) is associated with firms’ market values in order to assess whether CSRD provides incremental value relevant information to investors. A modified Ohlson (1995) model is used, which is a widely accepted equity valuation model in accounting research. The findings suggest that investors in the UK consider CSRD information in the total information set they use for their investment decision-making, whereas Japanese investors do not appear to find that CSRD provides incremental information over and above financial information to assist in their valuations of firms. These findings have implications for investors and regulators, specifically around the control and governance of firms.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Disclosure, Share Prices, Japan, UK, Environmentally Sensitive Industries

Suggested Citation:

Bowerman, Suzanne and Sharma, Umesh Prasad, The Effect of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosures on Share Prices in Japan and the UK (January 25, 2016). Corporate Ownership and Control, vol. 13(2), pp. 202-216, Winter 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2722280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
618
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,801
RANK
99,343
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies