Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Boards and Performance Pricing in Private Debt Contracts

44 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2016 Last revised: 22 Feb 2017

Intan Suryani Abu Bakar

International Islamic University of Malaysia (IIUM)

Arifur Khan

Deakin University - School of Accounting, Economics and Finance

Paul R. Mather

La Trobe University

George Tanewski

Deakin University - School of Accounting Economics and Finance

Date Written: February 2017

Abstract

We examine the effects of corporate board characteristics on the use of performance pricing in debt contracts. Performance pricing is a recent innovation that plays a role in addressing some debt contracting problems by linking the ex-ante pricing of debt with ex-post firm performance. Results show that debtholders are more likely to use performance pricing in loan contracts for borrower firms with greater board independence and CEOs with higher share ownership, whereas debtholders are less likely to use performance pricing when firms have smaller boards. Debtholders also are more likely to include an interest increasing performance pricing provision in loan contracts when CEOs’ incentives are aligned via higher share ownership, but they are less likely to use them in debt contracts when board ownership is lower. Overall, the results suggest debtholders perceive that characteristics associated with effective boards are beneficial and factor them in their contracting decisions.

Keywords: Performance pricing, covenants, governance, private debt

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Abu Bakar, Intan Suryani and Khan, Arifur and Mather, Paul R. and Tanewski, George, Corporate Boards and Performance Pricing in Private Debt Contracts (February 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2722888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2722888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
997
RANK
856,579
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies