Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Executive Efficiency Index: What Is It? And Why Is It Important?

23 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2016

Peter N. Rampling

Southern Cross University - SCBS

Ian Eddie

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - RMIT Asia Graduate Centre

Date Written: January 25, 2016

Abstract

This paper develops a discussion around the Executive “Efficiency Index” as to its nature and importance.

This study entails US, UK and Australian CEO’s and Executive Director Remuneration and Profit data from public listed firms.

The data collected is from public listed corporations from 2000-2012.

Developed models are constructed to test relationships between dependent and independent variables in line with research questions and hypotheses.

The findings found that there are mixed findings between CEO and Executive Director Remuneration and Net Profit after Tax (NPAT), Earnings before Interest and Tax (EBIT).

The paper will be of vital importance to other academics looking at this question, and to both public and private sector entities.

Keywords: CEO Remuneration, Firm Performance

JEL Classification: D21, D22, D31, D79, G35, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rampling, Peter N. and Eddie, Ian, The Executive Efficiency Index: What Is It? And Why Is It Important? (January 25, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2722241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2722241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,292
RANK
805,600
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies