Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Environmental, Social, and Governance Disclosure

Handbook of Finance and Sustainability, 2016

59 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2016 Last revised: 19 Dec 2017

Zuraida Zuraida

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 26, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) disclosure by companies around the world on market value. Using a large sample of non-financial companies listed in 38 countries during the period 2008-2012, we test for value relevance by employing the modified version of the Ohlson (1995) model developed by Collins, Maydew, and Weiss (1997). We find support for the value relevance of disclosure of ESG both in aggregate form and for its individual components. These findings support the expectation of disclosure theory that disclosure of relevant information (such as ESG) has a positive impact on value. The results are robust to several alternative specifications. Consistent with the finance literature on the impact of legal origin (La Porta, Lopez de Silanes, & Shleifer, 2006; La Porta, Lopez de Silanes, Shleifer, & Vishny, 1998, 2000, 2002), the results for ESG disclosure are stronger in common-law countries. Our results provide new evidence for researchers, investors, and policy makers of the value relevance of ESG disclosure in a broad international setting. The evidence shows that globally investors benefit from the disclosure of both aggregate ESG and the individual factors and this supports regulators in pushing companies to provide additional ESG information.

Keywords: Value relevance, non-financial information, ESG

JEL Classification: M3

Suggested Citation:

Zuraida, Zuraida and Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and van Zijl, Tony, Value Relevance of Environmental, Social, and Governance Disclosure (January 26, 2016). Handbook of Finance and Sustainability, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2722917 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2722917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,854
RANK
28,742
3 Citations
165 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies