Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Volatility of Return Revisions and Financial Statement Literacy in Emerging Markets: The Case of Cross-Listed Chinese Firms

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2723958

Posted: 29 Jan 2016

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Karen Lai

Monash University - Department of Accounting; Deakin University, Faculty of Business and Law, Deakin Law School, Students

Steven X. Wei

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: January 28, 2016

Abstract

Are foreign investors in emerging markets more financial statement literate than domestic investors? If so, this conjecture implies that foreign (domestic) investors are more likely to revise their return expectations to cash flow (discount rate) news. It also implies that cash flow news and discount rate news are likely to be uncorrelated when evaluating return revisions by domestic investors, whereas cash flow news and discount rate news are likely to be negatively correlated when evaluating return revisions by foreign investors. The Chinese equity markets yield robust empirical results that are consistent with both hypotheses.

Keywords: variance decomposition, domestic versus foreign investors, Chinese equity markets

JEL Classification: G12, G15, M40

Suggested Citation:

Callen, Jeffrey L. and Lai, Karen and Wei, Steven X., The Volatility of Return Revisions and Financial Statement Literacy in Emerging Markets: The Case of Cross-Listed Chinese Firms (January 28, 2016). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2723958, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2723958
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies