Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Case Study of Voluntary Disclosure by Vietnamese Listed Companies

International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Volume 3, Issue 4

18 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2016

Ta Quang Binh

Vietnam University of Commerce

Date Written: April 10, 2014

Abstract

The study intends to make practical contributions to the literature on voluntary disclosure and corporate governance in the context of integration in Vietnam through investigating annual reports. First, this paper indicated that, independent variables of firm size, profitability, audit committee and dual leadership, those belong to firms' characteristics; ownership structure and corporate governance are all positively associated with level of voluntary information practices. Second, the study also reported the different influential levels of such independent variables on all categories of disclosure information. It means that, each independent variable is significantly associated with one or several categories, but not with the others. Last but not least, this study recommends corporations to strengthen supervision and monitoring the performance of information disclosure of listed companies, on the other hand they need to improve the quality, content and diversify means of information disclosure.

Keywords: Annual reports, government ownership, influential factors, ownership structure, Vietnam, voluntary disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Binh, Ta Quang, A Case Study of Voluntary Disclosure by Vietnamese Listed Companies (April 10, 2014). International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Volume 3, Issue 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2723016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,819
RANK
263,404
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies