Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Short Sellers Constrain Opportunistic Non-GAAP Reporting?

Review of Accounting Studies, 2022, 27 (2), 391–440.

60 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2016 Last revised: 30 Jun 2022

Neil Bhattacharya

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Qunfeng Liao

Oakland University-Department of Accounting and Finance

Bo Ouyang

Pennsylvania State University Great Valley

Date Written: June 21, 2021

Abstract

Prior research finds an association between short selling volume and aggressive non-GAAP earnings disclosures but does not explore whether increased short selling pressure actually constrains aggressive non-GAAP reporting. Attribution of causality is problematic in this setting, due to multiple self-selection issues. Firms self-select into providing non-GAAP disclosures, and they also decide the timing of these disclosures strategically. Furthermore, short sellers carefully select the stocks they want to short. We exploit a randomized natural experiment—the SEC’s Regulation SHO—as an exogenous shock to mitigate endogeneity concerns and investigate the causal effect of short selling on the proliferation of aggressive non-GAAP earnings. The specific starting and ending dates of Regulation SHO allow us to conduct two separate difference-in-differences (DiD) tests. Our double DiD analyses indicate that the threat of increased short selling prompted by Regulation SHO significantly curbs managers’ aggressive non-GAAP disclosures. However, the regulation does not affect non-GAAP exclusions that are presumed to be nonstrategic and informative. We find that short sellers’ disciplining effect is stronger when the pre-disclosure information environment is relatively impoverished and corporate governance is weak. Our results are robust to extensive sensitivity testing. Overall, we find strong evidence that the threat of increased short selling constrains aggressive non-GAAP reporting.



Keywords: Non-GAAP earnings, short sellers, Regulation SHO, earnings management

JEL Classification: M41 ˖ D53 ˖ G14

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharya, Neil and Christensen, Theodore E. and Liao, Qunfeng and Ouyang, Bo, Can Short Sellers Constrain Opportunistic Non-GAAP Reporting? (June 21, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, 2022, 27 (2), 391–440., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2724935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2724935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between U.S. and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 8 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
459
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,458
RANK
143,763
1 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies