Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergence Versus Divergence, Global Corporate Governance at the Crossroads: Governances Norms, Capital Markets & OECD Principles for Corporate Governance

Ottawa Law Review, Vol. 33, No. 1, 2001

48 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2016

Janis P. Sarra

Peter A. Allard School of Law, the University of British Columbia

Abstract

There is growing debate as to whether international corporate governance practices can or should converge. Effective corporate governance has been linked to the ability of corporations to compete in global capital markets. Corporations operating in diverse economies have capital structures that are the result of public and private choices, and the corporate governance issues that arise reflect these structures. There is market pressure for convergence of corporate governance norms. The OECD has formulated Principles aimed at setting standards for corporations as they seek to attract capital. While the shareholder protections proposed are helpful in articulating norms that will attract long-term investment capital, the Principles fail to fully appreciate some of the current tensions between shareholder rights and obligations of corporate officers. Moreover, while the Principles suggest that corporations comply with laws regarding obligations to stakeholders, they fail to adequately discuss why shareholder rights are elevated to a universal norm, whereas accountability to other parties implicated in the corporation, such as creditors and workers, is not.

Suggested Citation:

Sarra, Janis P., Convergence Versus Divergence, Global Corporate Governance at the Crossroads: Governances Norms, Capital Markets & OECD Principles for Corporate Governance. Ottawa Law Review, Vol. 33, No. 1, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2724810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
704
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,863
RANK
84,001
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies