Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Banks' Below-Par Own Debt Repurchases a Cause For Prudential Concern?

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Feb 2016 Last revised: 10 Aug 2017

Martien Jan Peter Lubberink

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Annelies Renders

BI Norwegian School of Business

Date Written: October 21, 2016

Abstract

Leading up to the implementation of Basel III, European banks needed to substantially increase their capital ratios. To do this, banks made use of Liability Management Exercises (LMEs) in which they repurchased below-par debt securities. Banks are subject to a prudential filter that excludes from the calculation of capital ratios unrealized gains on debt securities arising from a deterioration in banks’ own credit standing. By repurchasing below-par debt securities, banks can circumvent the prudential filter as unrealized gains become realized and increase Core Tier 1 capital. We examine the determinants and consequences of these LMEs and provide evidence that these debt repurchases are a cause for prudential concern.

Keywords: banking, fair values, repurchases, subordinated debt

JEL Classification: E58, G21, G32, G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lubberink, Martien Jan Peter and Renders, Annelies, Are Banks' Below-Par Own Debt Repurchases a Cause For Prudential Concern? (October 21, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2725828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2725828
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,384
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies