Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monitoring Capabilities of Busy and Overlap Directors: Evidence from Australia

Méndez, C. F., Pathan, S., & García, R. A. (2015). Monitoring capabilities of busy and overlap directors: Evidence from Australia. Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, 35, 444-469.

51 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2016

Carlos Fernandez

Oviedo University - School of Economics and Business

Shams Pathan

University of Newcastle - Newcastle University Business School

Rubén Arrondo García

Universidad de Oviedo - Facultad de Economicas

Date Written: June 16, 2015

Abstract

We analyze the effects of multiple board directorships (busy directors) and multiple committee memberships of a board (overlap directors) on four board supervisory outcomes: CEO remuneration, external auditor opinion, audit fees and CEO turnover. Using a panel of 684 Australian listed firms from 2001 to 2011, we find that firms with busy directors pay high remunerations to their CEOs, and experience low CEO pay-performance and low CEO turnover-performance sensitivities. Our results also suggest that firms with overlap directors have a lower probability of receiving a qualified audit opinion and are able to negotiate lower payments, both to their CEOs and to the external auditors. These results hold for alternative specifications and proxies. Our results suggest that busy (overlap) directors are detrimental (beneficial) to the monitoring capability of the board and its committees. Finally, our findings suggest that the negative monitoring effect of busy directors are predominantly observed in large firms where over commitment problems are severe, while the positive monitoring effects of overlap directors are observed in small firms where directorial positions are less time demanding.

Keywords: Board, Executive remuneration, Busy directors, Overlap directors, Audit fees, Audit opinion, Pay-performance sensitivity, CEO turnover

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Fernandez, Carlos and Pathan, Shams and García, Rubén Arrondo, Monitoring Capabilities of Busy and Overlap Directors: Evidence from Australia (June 16, 2015). Méndez, C. F., Pathan, S., & García, R. A. (2015). Monitoring capabilities of busy and overlap directors: Evidence from Australia. Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, 35, 444-469., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2725869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
S Ahn , P Jiraporn , Y Kim
Multiple directorships and acquirer returns
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 34 , issue 9 , p. 2011 - 2026 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
Accounting Review , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Pay without performance: the unfulfilled promise of executive compensation Posted: 2004
J C Bedard , K M Johnstone
Earnings manipulation risk, corporate governance risk, and auditors' planning and pricing decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,510
RANK
588,270
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies