Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impacts of Voluntary Information Disclosure on the Fluctuation of Stock Market: Evidence from Vietnam

International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, 2014

20 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2016

Ta Quang Binh

Vietnam University of Commerce

Date Written: May 10, 2014

Abstract

The study, through the practical data of the factors that influencing the level of information disclosure as well as the impact of this disclosure level on the business operations of listed companies confirms that, by increasing the voluntary disclosure of information, enterprises can reduce cost of capital, increase the market price of the firm value, gain trust, foster absolute peace of mind of a transparent investment environment and create a fair playing field for both domestic and foreign investors. With the above sound foundation, listed firms can enhance enterprise’s business scale for their own as well as the overall capital markets and this helps promote the economic development of Vietnam.

Keywords: Annual reports, influential factors, market-to-book value, price volatility, stock market, Vietnam, voluntary disclosure, weighted average cost of capital (WACC).

Suggested Citation:

Binh, Ta Quang, The Impacts of Voluntary Information Disclosure on the Fluctuation of Stock Market: Evidence from Vietnam (May 10, 2014). International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2725028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,252
RANK
545,411
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies