Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Repairing Organizational Legitimacy Following Information Technology (IT) Material Weaknesses: Executive Turnover, IT Expertise, and IT System Upgrades

Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2016

Jacob Haislip

Texas Tech University

Adi Masli

University of Arkansas - Sam M. Walton College of Business

Vernon J. Richardson

University of Arkansas at Fayetteville

Juan Manuel Sanchez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: September 2015

Abstract

Since Information Technology (IT)-based internal controls are pivotal in providing access to, and security of, financial records, we argue that an IT-related material weakness (ITMW) is a significant threat to organizational legitimacy. Prior research suggests that firms work to repair legitimacy by disassociation with executives blamed for the deficiency and the establishment of a monitoring mechanism to ensure the problem is addressed (Suchman, 1995). As a test of disassociation, we find that relative to a propensity-score-matched sample of nonITMW firms, ITMW firms experience higher CEO, CFO, and director turnover. As a test of the establishment of a monitoring mechanism to repair organizational legitimacy, we find that ITMW firms hire CEOs, CFOs, and directors with higher levels of IT expertise, and make significant IT system upgrades. We find evidence that ITMW firms remediate deficiencies in a more timely fashion when they appoint a new CFO with IT expertise or upgrade their financial reporting system. Collectively, our results suggest that firms make significant monitoring changes to re-establish organizational legitimacy after receiving an ITMW.

Keywords: CEO, CFO, Director, turnover, internal control material weakness, corporate governance, information technology

JEL Classification: G30, J53, M4, M12, M41, O32, O33

Suggested Citation:

Haislip, Jacob and Masli, Adi and Richardson, Vernon J. and Sanchez, Juan Manuel, Repairing Organizational Legitimacy Following Information Technology (IT) Material Weaknesses: Executive Turnover, IT Expertise, and IT System Upgrades (September 2015). Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2726535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
K Kobelsky , V J Richardson , R E Smith , R W Zmud
Determinants and consequences of firm information technology budgets
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 4 , p. 957 - 995 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Y Y Kor , C Sundaramurthy
Experience-based human capital and social capital of outside directors
Journal of Management , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 981 - 1006 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Kpmg
Audit Committee Roundtable Report: Transformational Implications of Technology Pushing IT Higher on Audit Committee, Board Agendas Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Lawrence , M Minutti-Meza , P Zhang
Can Big 4 versus non-Big 4 differences in audit-quality proxies be attributed to client characteristics?
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 286 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Michelle Draeger , Bradley Lawson , Jaime J. Schmidt
<p>Do audit committees manage legitimacy through increased voluntary reporting? Evidence from a large-scale textual analysis</p>
55 Pages · Posted: 16 Feb 2018 · Last revised: 30 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 514
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gary Fleischman , Mary B. Curtis , Sean Valentine , Partha S. Mohapatra
AIS Security Investment to Mitigate Hacking Risk: The Role of Attitudes, Perceived Norms, and Outcomes
43 Pages · Posted: 24 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 143
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dongjoon Choi , Hansol Lee , Ho‐Young Lee , Hyun-Young Park
The Association between Human Resource Investment in IT Controls over Financial Reporting and Investment Efficiency
53 Pages · Posted: 7 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 112
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sergeja Slapničar , Micheal Axelsen , Ivano Bongiovanni , David Stockdale
A Pathway Model to Five Lines of Accountability in Cybersecurity Governance
54 Pages · Posted: 4 Aug 2022 · Last revised: 4 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 178
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,327
RANK
354,044
6 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies