Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SEC Comment Letters and Bank Lending

51 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2016 Last revised: 12 Jan 2017

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Roy Schmardebeck

The University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Wei Wang

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 1, 2017

Abstract

Banks collect private information for the purpose of monitoring borrowers. However, we have little evidence on the sources of private information they use. This study investigates whether and how banks use private information about regulatory oversight of public disclosures through the SEC comment letter process. Using within-sample and difference-in-differences analyses, we find that banks charge higher interest rates when borrowers receive a comment letter from the SEC, and such an increase in interest rate is greatest in the period when information regarding the comment letter is not yet publicly available. Further analyses show that the effect of comment letters on loan pricing is more pronounced when the letter identifies material disclosure deficiencies, issues subject to managerial discretion, and issues related to collateral valuation. Overall, our findings contribute to the literature on banks’ private information production by establishing the SEC comment letter process as a source of information banks use to make lending decisions.

Keywords: banks, comment letters, debt contracting, filing review process, SEC

JEL Classification: G21, G32, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Lauren M. and Schmardebeck, Roy and Wang, Wei, SEC Comment Letters and Bank Lending (January 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2727860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2727860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
862
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,684
RANK
64,315
3 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies