Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Technology Spillover and Corporate Technology Disclosures

54 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2016 Last revised: 9 Mar 2019

Michael Ettredge

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Feng Guo

Iowa State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Kevin Tseng

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: December 1, 2018

Abstract

In modern economies, technological knowledge can flow between firms through various channels. We test an economic theory that firms most likely to benefit from such knowledge flows disclose information about their technologies more readily, probably to attract technologically compatible counterparties. Consistent with theory, we find that greater potential value of knowledge flows to a focal firm, which we refer to as “technology spillover”, is associated with the firm’s voluntary disclosure of more R&D-related information in 10-K reports. We control for firm fixed effects and employ quasi-exogenous shocks to states’ R&D tax laws to enhance the inference of causality. In additional analyses, we find that firms subject to greater technology spillover are less likely to redact information from technology-related contracts filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Because the proprietary cost theory predicts that product market rivalry should be negatively associated with disclosures that aid rival firms, we control for product market rivalry in all analyses. Therefore, we demonstrate that the positive effects of technology spillover on the quantity and details of technology-related disclosures co-exist with the more familiar negative effects of proprietary costs.

Keywords: disclosure, technology, knowledge spillover, proprietary costs, redaction

JEL Classification: G14, L1, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ettredge, Michael L. and Guo, Feng and Lisic, Ling Lei and Tseng, Kevin, Technology Spillover and Corporate Technology Disclosures (December 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2727933 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2727933
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
U Akcigit , M A Celik , J Greenwood
Buy, keep, or sell: Economic growth and the market for ideas
Econometrica , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 943 - 84 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R C Allen
Collective invention
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1983
Crossref
J J Anton , D A Yao
Expropriation and inventions: Appropriable rents in the absence of property rights
The American Economic Review , p. 190 - 209 Posted: 1994
J J Anton , D A Yao
The sale of ideas: Strategic disclosure, property rights, and contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 513 - 531 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
726
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,860
RANK
80,730
4 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies