Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Management and Internal Audit in Not for Profit Organizations

63 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2016

Rovena Kokoshi

Independent

Date Written: October 4, 2014

Abstract

This paper attempts to define the relationship that exists among risk management, accounting, and internal control. The links between surrounding problems that these levels have and how they affect the organization performance and objective indicators make the focus of the study. The research confirms that tracking risk is a key element to quantify it and the not for profit organizations risk appetite is decided by the means of the organization objectives rather than its current financial net worth. Furthermore, the study underlines the importance of accrual basis accounting, as well as the collaboration between internal audit and risk management departments. The paper comes up with six recommendations; first IPSAS adaption system should be viewed under a medium – long term perspective. Proper staff involvement and preparation can be done more often through online courses and inter offices experience exchange seminars. Decision making for copartners and contractors can be made by the central bureau in order to diminish staff exposure to security risk. Siblings organizations can find useful a co sourcing of auditors increasing such way info sharing and collaboration between their internal audit and risk management departments. Long term operational strategies should include permanent risk while short term ones should consider any case as unique. The transparency towards donors can be increased through the IPSAS financial system in use, on time reports and sharing real challenges faced in place. The last recommendation regards to the creation of a corporate fund for a smother operational respond to unexpected emergencies.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Risk Management, IPSAS, Risk Appetite, WFP, UNHCR.

JEL Classification: D89,L3,L31.L39,M4,O19,O55

Suggested Citation:

Kokoshi, Rovena, Risk Management and Internal Audit in Not for Profit Organizations (October 4, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2727611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2727611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,609
RANK
133,846
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies