Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Regulation in an International Setting: Testing the Impact of Religion, Culture, Market Factors and Legal Code on National Regulatory Efforts

Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Gary Kleinman

Montclair State University

Beixin Lin

Montclair State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 5, 2016

Abstract

Assuring the quality of international auditing is important in the current, globalized business/economic environment. High quality international auditing efforts promote greater confidence in financial statements, and therefore promote greater movement of capital. Ensuring high quality auditing efforts is the task of auditing regulation efforts, among others. Several potential determinants of the strength of these efforts were postulated in Kleinman, Lin and Palmon (2014). The postulated determinants of interest include national culture, religion, legal code origin and financial market liquidity. The authors, however, did not test the relationship of the postulated determinants to auditing enforcement efforts. This study undertakes the task of investigating such relationship empirically, using the Brown, Preiato and Tarca (2014) measures of auditing enforcement efforts. We find that comparative religious affiliation, religion’s importance, culture, legal code and the financial variable of market liquidity were determinants of auditing enforcement efforts. The implications of these findings are presented.

Keywords: auditing, regulation, international auditing, culture, religion, legal code, auditing enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Kleinman, Gary and Lin, Beixin, Audit Regulation in an International Setting: Testing the Impact of Religion, Culture, Market Factors and Legal Code on National Regulatory Efforts (February 5, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2728440
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,252
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies