Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Proposed Framework of Islamic Governance for Awqaf

Journal of Islamic Economics, Banking and Finance, Vol. 11 No. 2, pp. 117-133

17 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2016

Hidayatul Ihsan

Politeknik Negeri Padang, Indonesia

Abdullah Ayedh

Islamic Science University of Malaysia

Date Written: June 1, 2015

Abstract

With the increasing clamoring for the revival of waqf (plural awqaf) institution, more attention has been accorded to good governance and best practices of waqf by scholars and other stakeholders. This is due to the recognition of the adoption of best practice of good governance as a critical success factors for revitalizing awqaf institutions. Despite the unprecedented call for the adoption of best practice of good governance, studies regarding this crucial issue are limited. This is probably because of the conception which exclusively relates governance only to commercial sectors. In fact, governance in charitable and not-for profit organizations has huge responsibilities of demonstrating convincing accountability to stakeholders. This paper therefore attempts to review some Islamic concepts and values which underpin the governance framework for awqaf institutions and thus demonstrate the Islamic accountability of mutawalli (awqaf manager).

Keywords: Awqaf, Governance, Islamic accountability

JEL Classification: E21, E22, E23, L39

Suggested Citation:

Ihsan, Hidayatul and Ayedh, Abdullah, A Proposed Framework of Islamic Governance for Awqaf (June 1, 2015). Journal of Islamic Economics, Banking and Finance, Vol. 11 No. 2, pp. 117-133, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2728408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Magda Abdel-Mohsin , Islamil
Financing through cash-waqf: a revitalization to finance different needs
International journal of Islamic and Middle Eastern finance and management , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 304 - 321 Posted: 2013
Abdul Rahim Abdul Rahman
Issues in Corporate accountability and governance: An Islamic perspective
The American journal of Islamic social sciences , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 69 Posted: 1998
Abdul Rahim Abdul Rahman
Accounting Regulatory Issues on Investments in Islamic Bonds
International Journal of Islamic Financial Services , issue 1 Posted: 2003
Abu Zahra , Muhammad Muhadarat Fi Al-Waqf
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,197
RANK
179,657
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies