Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Standards Enforcement in an International Setting: Testing the Impact of Cultural, Religious, Political and Legal Environment on National Regulatory Efforts

Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Gary Kleinman

Montclair State University

Beixin Lin

Montclair State University

Rebecca Bloch

Fairfield University - Charles F. Dolan School of Business

Date Written: February 5, 2016

Abstract

As the world has become more connected through advancements in technology and expansions of multinational corporations, the call has grown louder for a global set of financial reporting standards to help compare the financial results of companies conducting business internationally to better measure performance in comparison with competitors from countries using diverse sets of local or international accounting standards. Although in theory a global set of reporting standards creates a more cohesive and comparable financial reporting environment, this argument fails to take into account how the underlying differences in the culture, political, and legal environments across nations impacts the enforcement of these standards. If the enforcement efforts of accounting standards do vary as a result of national characteristics, it adds an important dimension to the arguments for and against the globalization of accounting standards for the purposes of improved comparability and standardization, because it has implications for the comparability of financial reports across nations with differing levels of enforcement. This study evaluates whether the accounting standards enforcement efforts vary as a result of underlying differences in cultural, religious, political and legal environments. Whereas there is a body of literature focusing on the adoption of IFRS and the quality of financial reporting, this study provides a new and important contribution to the literature seeking to understand whether the often advocated widespread adoption of any set of international standards can provide the link in comparability across nations that proponents have been calling for. Rather than focusing on the standards themselves, this study focuses on the hypothesized determinants of variation in enforcement efforts across nations. The results indicate that there are systematic differences in enforcement based on underlying cultural, religious, political and legal environment differences.

Keywords: Accounting, regulation, culture, religion, legal code, accounting enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Kleinman, Gary and Lin, Beixin and Bloch, Rebecca, Accounting Standards Enforcement in an International Setting: Testing the Impact of Cultural, Religious, Political and Legal Environment on National Regulatory Efforts (February 5, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2728452
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,375
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies