Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Have the Desired Effect? Evidence from the Marginal Value of Corporate Cash Holdings

36 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2016

Gurmeet S. Bhabra

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Jacob Rooney

First New Zealand Capital

Date Written: October 2014

Abstract

We examine whether passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in 2002 did in fact have the intended effect of reducing agency conflicts or did it alter managerial incentives in ways that could be detrimental to firm value. Our findings for the full sample suggest a decrease in firm value and the marginal value of cash collectively suggesting that either the provisions imposed by SOX resulted in significant compliance costs and/or lead to an increase in risk aversion of managers resulting in costs of lost opportunity. There is, however, evidence of a significant variation in the ability of the various provisions to constrain incentives of managers with some leading to reduced agency conflicts while others having the perverse effect of increasing both managerial risk aversion as well as imposing excessive costs of compliance.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley, Cash Holdings, Firm Value

JEL Classification: G3, G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Bhabra, Gurmeet S. and Rooney, Jacob, Did the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Have the Desired Effect? Evidence from the Marginal Value of Corporate Cash Holdings (October 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2729589 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2729589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
L Renneboog
Ownership, managerial control and the corporate governance of companies listed on the Brussels stock exchange
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 24 , p. 1959 - 1995 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Larry Edward Ribstein
Market vs. Regulatory Responses to Corporate Fraud: A Critique of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Journal of Corporation Law, Vol. 28, No. 1 Pages: 74 Posted: 23 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L E Ribstein
Sarbanes-Oxley after three years Posted: 2005
Crossref
Roberta Romano
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Making of Quack Corporate Governance
European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 52/2004, NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 04-032, Yale ICF Working Paper No. 04-37, Yale Law & Economics Research Paper No. 297 Pages: 240 Posted: 27 Sep 2004 Last revised: 3 Feb 2023
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,566
RANK
514,660
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies