Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Interlocks and the Contagion of Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management

46 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2016

Ravi Dharwadkar

Syracuse University - Whitman School of Management

David G. Harris

Syracuse University - Joseph I. Lubin School of Accounting

Linna Shi

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Nan Zhou

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Date Written: January 29, 2016

Abstract

Cohen et al. (2008) document that firms switched from accrual-based earnings management (AEM) to real earnings management (REM) within three years after passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in 2002. A remaining question is how so many firms could have made the transition from one accounting practice to another in such a short period of time. We investigate a hidden mechanism underlying this large-scale, accelerated transfer of accounting knowledge. Our study reveals that audit committee interlocks facilitated firms’ post-SOX substitution from AEM to REM, contributed to the contagion of AEM before SOX and to the contagion of REM after SOX. Our results are robust for subsamples of intangible-intensive firms and manufacturing firms, which are more susceptible to REM. We further create a REM-AEM substitution index and find that the contagion of substitution from AEM to REM was disseminated through audit committee interlocks. Overall, we identify audit committee interlocks as a significant channel for transmitting accounting information between firms.

Keywords: audit committee interlock, contagion effect, real earnings management, accrual-based earnings management, information transfer

JEL Classification: M42, M41, G34, D83

Suggested Citation:

Dharwadkar, Ravi and Harris, David G. and Shi, Linna and Zhou, Nan, Audit Committee Interlocks and the Contagion of Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management (January 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2729855 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2729855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
539
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,190
RANK
118,293
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies