Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multidimensional Competition and Corporate Disclosure

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2016

Flora Muiño

Universidade da Coruña

Manuel Núñez Nickel

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid - Department of Business Economics

Date Written: February 9, 2016

Abstract

In this paper, we argue that the influence product market competition exerts on disclosure is defined by the combined effect of the incentives and disincentives to disclose raised by the multiple competition dimensions. We distinguish between firm and industry level competition measures, and we hypothesize that the former raises agency and proprietary costs, whereas the latter creates incentives to disclose either to fulfill the owners’ need of information to monitor managers or to deter the entrance of new competitors in the industry. Our research design allows for non-monotonic relationships between competition and disclosure as well as for interactions between competition dimensions.

Using a sample of U.S. manufacturing companies, we gather evidence that is consistent with our hypotheses. First, we find an inverted U-shape relationship between corporate disclosure and a firm’s abnormal profitability, which is suggestive of firms being reluctant to disclose when they are underperforming (outperforming) their rivals because of the fear of unveiling agency conflicts (raising proprietary costs). Second, we observe a U-shape relationship between corporate disclosure and industry profitability, although this U design evolves to approximate a rising function as the protection provided by entry barriers increases.

Keywords: disclosure, product market competition, incentives to disclose, disincentives to disclose, segment reporting, agency conflicts, proprietary costs

JEL Classification: M41, L10, L60

Suggested Citation:

Muino, Flora and Nunez-Nickel, Manuel, Multidimensional Competition and Corporate Disclosure (February 9, 2016). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2729977
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The Limitations of Industry Concentration Measures Constructed with Compustat Data: Implications for Finance Research
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 10 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry Concentration and Corporate Disclosure Policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Baggs , J. De Bettignies
Product Market Competition and Agency Costs
Journal of Industrial Economics , volume 55 , issue 2 , p. 289 - 323 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in UK Private Firms: Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
RANK
640,233
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies