Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Proximity and M&A Transactions

43 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2016

Marvin Wee

Australian National University (ANU); Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Raymond da Silva Rosa

The University of Western Australia - Department of Accounting and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Jake Wolfe

Independent

Date Written: January 22, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines how firm proximity affects merger and acquisition (M&A) deal outcomes, namely ease of execution and payment method. Firm proximity is defined as the ‘nearness in space or relationship’ between two companies and can be measured by firm similarity, board connections, prior business relationships, geographical proximity, shared auditors, and investor proximity. Prior studies have explored specific firm proximity factors in isolation, consistently identifying a positive effect on bidder M&A announcement returns. While these studies acknowledge that proximity, in different forms, contributes to information benefits for the bidder, none have studied the different proximity proxies together. In contrast to prior empirical studies, we argue that firm proximity is multifaceted and use an aggregate measure of proximity in our analysis. We study the effects of firm proximity on 316 Australian M&A transactions over the ten year period, January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2013. In the analysis, we find low correlation between the six proxies, indicating that the proxies capture different channels of information sharing. Using the aggregate measure of firm proximity, we find that proximity significantly increases the likelihood of announced M&A bids receiving a positive recommendation from the target board of directors and the likelihood of completion success. Furthermore, firm proximity increases the propensity of equity-based M&A transactions. Interestingly, firm proximity does not affect deal duration and is likely to be due to the Australian regulations in inhibiting the timeliness of the deal. We attribute our findings to the sharing of information when firms involved in the M&A are more proximate.

Keywords: Merger and acquisitions, Firm proximity, Ease of execution, Payment method

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Wee, Marvin and Wee, Marvin and da Silva Rosa, Raymond and Wolfe, Jake, Firm Proximity and M&A Transactions (January 22, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2730457 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2730457
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
320
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,175
RANK
215,929
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies