Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Long-Term Efficacy of Activist Directors

266 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2016 Last revised: 19 Feb 2016

Shane Goodwin, PhD

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Finance Department

Date Written: February 11, 2016

Abstract

Over the past two decades, hedge fund activism has emerged as a new mechanism of corporate governance that brings about operational, financial and governance reforms to a corporation. Many prominent business executives and legal scholars are convinced that the entire American economy will suffer unless hedge fund activism with its perceived short-termism agenda is significantly restricted. Shareholder activists and their proponents claim they function as a disciplinary mechanism to monitor management and are instrumental in mitigating the agency conflict between managers and shareholders.

My expansive, hand-collected dataset and unique empirical research design methodology with respect to board representation fills an important void in the literature regarding the long-term efficacy of hedge fund activists serving as a disciplinary mechanism on Target Firms by actively seeking board representation to monitor management and reduce agency cost. Moreover, my findings have important policy implications related to the ongoing debate on corporate governance and the rights and roles of shareholders.

I find statistically meaningful empirical evidence to suggest that hedge fund activism generates substantial long-term value for Target Firms and its long-term shareholders when they function as a shareholder advocate to monitor management through active board engagement. Furthermore, contrary to conventional wisdom and extant literature, hedge fund activists that seek board representation are focused on long-term corporate initiatives to increase shareholder value rather than a perceived short-term agenda. It is very common for hedge fund activists to seek replacement of the incumbent management team to accomplish the activist’s strategic plan as opposed to forcing a "sale of the company" ex post the board seat grant date.

Keywords: Corporate governance, shareholder activism, hedge fund activism, proxy fights, short-termism, market efficiency, long-term value, shareholder rights, hedge funds, agency cost

JEL Classification: D21, D22, D81, D82, G12, G23, G32, G34, G35, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Goodwin, Shane, The Long-Term Efficacy of Activist Directors (February 11, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2731369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2731369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
The wall street walk and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2645 - 2685 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer , J Zechner
Large shareholder activism, risk sharing, and financial market equilibrium
Journal of Political Economy , volume 102 , p. 1097 - 1130 Posted: 1994
Crossref
A Agrawal , G Mandelker
Large shareholders and the monitoring of managers: The case of antitakeover charter amendments
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 161 Posted: 1990
Crossref
A C Akyol , C A Carroll
Removing poison pills: A case of shareholder activism. Working paper Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,568
RANK
161,184
1 Citations
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies