Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Factors Drive Director Perceptions of Their Board's Effectiveness?

51 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2016

Boris Groysberg

Harvard Business School

Paul M. Healy

Harvard Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Rajesh Vijayaraghavan

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

We use a survey of directors to collect data on their ratings of board effectiveness as well as board internal dynamics and key processes. Controlling for many of the governance metrics examined by prior research, we find that directors’ ratings of their boards’ effectiveness are positively related to measures of board internal dynamics (such as relations with the CEO and senior management, and its ability to perform well as a team), director engagement (reflected in meeting preparedness), and the breadth of the board’s experiences. Tests for a subset of firms that are identified in the survey show that boards rated as ineffective have a higher likelihood of losses one year after the survey, consistent with effective governance enhancing the management of risk.

Keywords: board of directors, corporate governance, risk management

JEL Classification: G39

Suggested Citation:

Groysberg, Boris and Healy, Paul M. and Vijayaraghavan, Rajesh, What Factors Drive Director Perceptions of Their Board's Effectiveness? (February 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2731512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2731512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Chief Executive Officer Compensation, and Firm performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 51 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 406
Duchin , John G Ran , Oguzhan Matsusaka , Ozbas
When Are Outside Directors Effective?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 96 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 214 Posted: 2010
Amy C Edmondson , Michael D Roberto , Watkins
A Dynamic Model of Top Management Team Effectiveness: Managing Unstructured Task Streams
The Leadership Quarterly , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 325 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Daniel P Forbes , Frances J Milliken
Cognition and Corporate Governance: Understanding Boards of Directors as Strategic Decision-Making Groups , volume 24 , p. 489 - 505 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Steve Crawford , Wesley R. Gray , Bryan Johnson , Richard A. Price
The Investment Value of Contrarian Buy-Side Recommendations
49 Pages · Posted: 14 Dec 2011 · Last revised: 27 Oct 2013 · Downloads: 2,494
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,409
RANK
190,292
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies