Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in the GCC: An Analysis of Selected Listed Companies in the UAE

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 16, No. 1, 2015

36 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2016

Sherine Farouk Abdel Al

Abu Dhabi University

Sanjoy Bose

Zayed University

Date Written: October 15, 2015

Abstract

This paper investigates compliance of corporate governance principles by firms listed on the securities exchange in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Even though many companies have appreciated the importance of corporate governance globally, there is limited examination of the UAE in the literature. Data for the paper has been collected from the companies listed in the securities exchange of the UAE. Other sources of data have been used to complement primary data, including websites and annual reports of these companies. The results show that there is limited compliance to Corporate Governance by a few firms in the UAE. Overall, compliance in UAE is ensured more by the banks and the financial sector. This can be attributed to regulations by the Central Bank.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Compliance, UAE Security Exchange, Listed Companies

JEL Classification: G3, M1, 016

Suggested Citation:

Farouk Abdel Al, Sherine and Bose, Sanjoy, Corporate Governance in the GCC: An Analysis of Selected Listed Companies in the UAE (October 15, 2015). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 16, No. 1, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
H Abdulla , B Valentine
Fundamental and ethics of corporate governance. Middle Eastern Finance and Economics , volume 4 , p. 88 - 96 Posted: 2009
M H H Al-Mashregy
Board of director's characteristic and firm financial performance in UAE. Master dissertation submitted to graduate school of Business Posted: 1012
A Amico
Corporate Governance Enforcement in the Middle East and North Africa: Evidence and Priorities Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Beasley
An Empirical Analysis of the Relation between the Board of Director Composition and Financial Statement Fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,963
RANK
373,551
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies