Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Monitoring Role of Female Directors Over Accounting Quality

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2016 Last revised: 30 May 2017

Juan M. García Lara

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Araceli Mora

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Mariano Scapin

University of Bristol Business School

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

Recent research in accounting suggests female directors exert more stringent monitoring over the financial reporting process than their male counterparts. However, an emerging literature in finance and economics provides mixed findings and questions whether females in leadership roles significantly differ from their male counterparts. Building on this literature, we re-examine the link between the presence of female directors, gender biases, and financial statements quality. Using a large sample of UK firms we find that a larger percentage of women among independent directors is significantly associated with lower earnings management practices. However, we show that this relation disappears if we focus on firms that do not discriminate against women in the access to directorships. Finally, we provide evidence that gender biases are associated with lower earnings quality. We interpret our results as consistent with (1) prior evidence that males and females do not differ substantially when performing the same role in highly specialized positions, and with (2) discrimination being an important factor explaining the association between female directors and accounting quality.

Keywords: Gender, board of directors, accounting quality, earnings management, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41, G34, J16, J71

Suggested Citation:

García Lara, Juan Manuel and Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Mora, Araceli and Scapin, Mariano, The Monitoring Role of Female Directors Over Accounting Quality (May 1, 2017). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2732588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the Boardroom and their Impact on Governance and Performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the Glass Ceiling: Does Gender Matter?
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R B Adams , T Kirchmaier
Women on Boards in Finance and STEM Industries , volume 106 , p. 277 - 281 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Renée B. Adams , Vanitha Ragunathan
Lehman Sisters
FIRN Research Paper Pages: 48 Posted: 17 Jan 2014 Last revised: 3 Sep 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
584
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,575
RANK
106,838
40 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies