Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Taxation on Bank Transparency: Evidence from Loan Loss Provisions

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 63, No. 2-3, 2017

60 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2016 Last revised: 28 Sep 2017

Kathleen Andries

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

John Gallemore

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Date Written: January 1, 2017

Abstract

We examine how the corporate tax system, through its treatment of loan losses, affects bank financial reporting choices. Our identification strategy exploits cross-country and intertemporal variation in corporate tax rates and the tax deductibility of loan loss provisions. Using an international sample of banks, we find that the loan loss provision is increasing in the corporate tax rate for countries that permit the tax deduction of general provisions. The effect is economically significant: when allowing general provision deductibility, a 1 percentage point increase in the corporate tax rate leads to an increase in provisions of approximately 4.9% of the sample average. Furthermore, we show that this effect is driven by the corporate tax system’s encouragement of timelier loan loss recognition: the extent to which future and current loan portfolio quality deteriorations are incorporated into the loan loss provision is increasing in the tax rate when general provisions are tax deductible. Overall, our results suggest that the corporate tax system is an important determinant of timely loan loss recognition and hence the financial reporting transparency of the banking sector.

Keywords: bank transparency, bank regulation, loan loss provisions, corporate taxation

JEL Classification: G21, G28, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Andries, Kathleen and Gallemore, John and Jacob, Martin, The Effect of Corporate Taxation on Bank Transparency: Evidence from Loan Loss Provisions (January 1, 2017). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 63, No. 2-3, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2732354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
V V Acharya , M Richardson
Restoring Financial Stability : How to Repair a Failed System Posted: 2009
Anat R. Admati , Peter M. DeMarzo , Martin F. Hellwig , Paul C. Pfleiderer
Fallacies, Irrelevant Facts, and Myths in the Discussion of Capital Regulation: Why Bank Equity is Not Socially Expensive
Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective Goods 2013/23, Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 161, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 13-7 Pages: 77 Posted: 4 Nov 2013 Last revised: 12 Jan 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T J Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-Tax Conformity, Earnings Persistence and the Association between Earnings and Future Cash Flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A J Auerbach , J Slemrod
The Economic Effects of the Tax Reform Act of 1986
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 589 - 632 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
676
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,059
RANK
88,471
27 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies