Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banking Supervision Outsourcing: Economics, Rules and Drivers

BAFFI CAREFIN Centre Research Paper No. 2016-16

38 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2016

Donato Masciandaro

Bocconi University - Department of Economics; Bocconi University - Department of Economics (ECO)

Date Written: February 2016

Abstract

What are the pros and cons of involving external auditors in banking supervision? Which are the concrete rules of the game all around the world? How to evaluate them? The aim of this paper is to shed light on the relationship between the quality of banking supervision and the involvement of external auditors, considering the potential benefits and costs. On the one side, the involvement of private financial gatekeepers can improve overall credibility of the supervisory setting. On the other side, the involvement of private actors for the implementation of public tasks can give rise to a range of known risks. The article opens with economic analysis highlighting the pros and cons of involving external auditors and entrusting them with a measure of banking supervision. On the basis of the economic framework, the author constructs an original and systematic index of Auditors’ Involvement in Supervision – the AIS Index – based on 22 indicators, which is then applied to evaluate country by country the state of banking supervision in the world. The resulting data set is used for econometric testing of the existence of drivers that can explain the political choices made over auditors’ involvement in supervision.

Keywords: Banking Supervision, Auditing, Delegation, Economics and Law

JEL Classification: G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Masciandaro, Donato, Banking Supervision Outsourcing: Economics, Rules and Drivers (February 2016). BAFFI CAREFIN Centre Research Paper No. 2016-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2732633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A Alesina , G Tabellini
Bureaucrats or Politicians? Part I: A Single Policy Task
American Economic Review , volume 97 , p. 169 - 179 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K Alvis
Accounting Credibility and Liquidity Constraints: Evidence from Reactions of Small Banks to Monetary Tightening
Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 3 , p. 1079 - 1113 Posted: 2015
J R Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank Regulation and Supervision in 180 Countries from
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 1999
Crossref
External Audits of banks, Bank for International Settlements
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Posted: 2014-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,822
RANK
382,931
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

BAFFI Centre on Economics, Finance & Regulation Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies