Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditors’ Contribution to Good Corporate Governance. An Empirical Analysis for the One-Tier Governance System with a Focus on the Relationship between Internal Audit Function and Audit Committee

Corporate ownership and Control, Volume 13, Issue 1, Autumn 2015

11 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2016 Last revised: 14 Oct 2017

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Jochen Theis

University of Duisburg-Essen - Mercator School of Management

Date Written: July 1, 2015

Abstract

The effectiveness and efficiency of the internal corporate governance structure depends on different governance bodies within the organization. As crucial parts of good governance they provide constituting, monitoring and controlling tasks concerning the risk management and internal control system. Hence, these corporate governance mechanisms include the internal control function (IAF) resp. the members of the internal auditing (IA) and the audit committee (AC) that supervise the risk management and internal control system. Our study explores empirically what internal auditors perceive as the IAF’s contribution to these aspects of corporate governance. Based on a dataset of 550 responses from U.S. internal auditors, our results suggest that IA’s self-perception is characterized as a central element of the governance structure. A significant interaction between the IAF and the AC is positively linked with the efficiency and effectiveness of the governance processes, internal controls and risk management.

Keywords: Internal Audit; Corporate Governance; Audit Committees

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Eulerich, Marc and Velte, Patrick and Theis, Jochen, Internal Auditors’ Contribution to Good Corporate Governance. An Empirical Analysis for the One-Tier Governance System with a Focus on the Relationship between Internal Audit Function and Audit Committee (July 1, 2015). Corporate ownership and Control, Volume 13, Issue 1, Autumn 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2735824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,596
RANK
163,413
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies