Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Link between Audit Committees, Corporate Governance Quality and Firm Performance

Posted: 22 Feb 2016

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: February 21, 2016

Abstract

This literature review evaluates 146 empirical research studies on audit committees (AC) composition and resources which focus on the period after the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX). I will briefly introduce the theoretical, normative and empirical AC framework that comprises an adequate structure of the state-of-the-art of empirical research in this field. This is followed by a discussion of AC monitoring process which aims to enhance corporate governance quality, and is structured as follows: (1) financial reporting quality; (2) internal audit quality and (3) external audit quality. I will then evaluate the impact of AC on (4) firm performance. I will summarize the key findings in each area, and provide a description of the analyzed proxies for corporate governance quality and firm performance. Finally, I will discuss recommendations for future empirical AC research activities.

Keywords: Audit Committees; Corporate Governance; Audit Quality; Internal Audit Quality; Earnings Management; Corporate Governance Quality

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick, The Link between Audit Committees, Corporate Governance Quality and Firm Performance (February 21, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2735931
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,475
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies