Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Litigation: Deterrence Implications for Non-sued Auditors

27th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting Paper

39 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2016 Last revised: 18 Dec 2019

Sean Cao

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Yangyang Fan

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Ganapathi S. Narayanamoorthy

Tulane University - Accounting & Taxation

Stephen P. Rowe

University of Arkansas

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 5, 2019

Abstract

Litigation poses a significant business risk for auditors. We argue that litigation events involving other auditors’ deter audit firms from providing low quality audits. We find a significant subsequent decrease in the misstatement frequency of financial reports in within-industry audits conducted by auditors who did not face litigation. This industry-based across-auditor effect is further supported (a) by an increase in audit fees; (b) an increase in auditor going concern opinions; and (c) is robust to a battery of controls including the use of a difference-in-difference approach. By showing that auditor litigation leads to lower, rather than higher, misstatements across an industry, the findings expand our understanding of misstatement contagion evidenced in other accounting studies. We find no evidence of region-based across-auditor deterrence effect of litigation. Overall, by demonstrating a general deterrence effect of litigation for non-sued entities, this study significantly enhances the impact of litigation beyond just the sued entity.

Keywords: Auditor litigation, Restatements, Auditor learning, Audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Cao, Sean S. and Fan, Yangyang and Narayanamoorthy, Ganapathi S. and Rowe, Stephen P., Auditor Litigation: Deterrence Implications for Non-sued Auditors (December 5, 2019). 27th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2736934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2736934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements
Auditing: a Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
David A Anderson
The Deterrence Hypothesis and Picking Pockets at the Pickpocket's Hanging
American Law and Economics Review , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 295 - 313 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,230
RANK
81,003
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies