Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remuneration and Pay-Performance Relationship Assessment

25 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2016

Stefano Maiani

University of Vienna - Institute of Business Administration

Ludwig Mueller

University of Vienna - Institute of Business Administration

Juergen Noll

University of Vienna - Department for Business Studies

Date Written: February 22, 2016

Abstract

Several well-known scandals concerning executive remuneration and “bad” governance practices made the academic community understand the true importance of the topic. Consequently, in recent years, also the law-makers stepped in to mitigate firms’ failure to adopt practices that are optimal for shareholders and for the whole society. In this paper we gathered a substantial pool of relevant papers, addressing the main issues of corporate governance, with the aim of giving a snapshot of the main accomplishments that have been made and the problems that still need to be addressed. Particularly, the main focus of our research is on executive remuneration and other remuneration-like incentives. Eventually, the effectiveness of these incentives for firms’ performance maximization and the existence of a correlation between firms’ performance and any of these incentives is also tested. Furthermore, other factors, both inside and outside the firm that could alleviate agency costs and managers’ “empire building” are considered in this paper.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Remuneration Schemes, Pay-Performance Relationship

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Maiani, Stefano and Mueller, Ludwig and Noll, Juergen, Remuneration and Pay-Performance Relationship Assessment (February 22, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2736422 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2736422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Do directors perform for pay?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 46 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 171 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Adegbite
Good corporate governance in Nigeria: Antecedents, propositions and peculiarities
International Business Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 319 - 330 Posted: 2015
Crossref
P Adithipyangkul , I Alon , T Zhang
Executive perks: Compensation and corporate performance in China
Asia Pacific Journal of Management , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 401 - 425 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Adrian Pryce , Nada K Kakabadse , Tom Lloyd
Income differentials and corporate performancenull
Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Business in Society , volume 11 , issue 5 , p. 587 - 600 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,849
RANK
294,806
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies