Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firing on All Cylinders? CEO Retention and Performance: A Learning Approach

Melbourne Business School, 2016 Financial Institutions, Regulation & Corporate Governance (FIRCG) Conference

72 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2016

Tom Stannard

University of Otago

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

The decision a board makes to dismiss or retain their manager is the most important one it faces. This paper utilises real options analysis to develop a new learning-based model of this decision. The model presents new implications for optimised CEO survival and termination thresholds through time. Empirical evidence is found to indicate a CEO is more likely to be publicly fired after poor recent stock performance and privately fired when the manager's average accounting performance falls. This suggests that when a firm’s current stock performance is poor, the board is forced to act publicly due to shareholder pressure. When this pressure does not occur, there is indication that the board evaluates the manager's performance through time and makes rational retention decisions. This is consistent with the view that boards are sensitive to the threat (real or perceived) of shareholder outrage (when their job is threatened), and that boards may be trying to optimise long-run firm value, whereas powerful shareholders (such as blockholders) have short term incentives in stock returns. This may indicate that powerful shareholders do not have incentives that are aligned with small shareholders in maximising firm value.

Suggested Citation:

Stannard, Tom, Firing on All Cylinders? CEO Retention and Performance: A Learning Approach (2016). Melbourne Business School, 2016 Financial Institutions, Regulation & Corporate Governance (FIRCG) Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2736055 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2736055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,692
RANK
682,509
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies