Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Buy-Side Analysts and Earnings Conference Calls

Journal of Accounting Research, June 2018, Vol. 56, Issue 3, pp. 913-952.

55 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2016 Last revised: 26 May 2018

Michael J. Jung

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

M.H. Franco Wong

University of California, Irvine - Paul Merage School of Business; University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Frank Zhang

Yale School of Management

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 22, 2018

Abstract

Companies’ earnings conference calls are perceived to be venues for sell-side equity analysts to ask management questions. In this study, we examine another important conference call participant — the buy-side analyst — that has been underexplored in the literature due to data limitations. Using a large sample of transcripts, we identify 3,834 buy-side analysts from 701 institutional investment firms that participated (i.e., asked a question) on 13,332 conference calls to examine the determinants and implications of their participation. Buy-side analysts are more likely to participate when sell-side analyst coverage is low and dispersion in sell-side earnings forecasts is high, consistent with buy-side analysts participating when a company’s information environment is poor. Institutional investors trade more of a company’s stock in the quarters in which their buy-side analysts participate on the call. Finally, we find evidence that buy-side analyst participation is associated with company-level absolute changes in future stock price, trading volume, institutional ownership, and short interest.

Keywords: Buy-side analysts, institutional investors, sell-side analysts, earnings conference calls

JEL Classification: G10, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Michael J. and Wong, M.H. Franco and Zhang, Frank, Buy-Side Analysts and Earnings Conference Calls (May 22, 2018). Journal of Accounting Research, June 2018, Vol. 56, Issue 3, pp. 913-952., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2736533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2736533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
704
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,406
RANK
61,669
3 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies