Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Warrant-Based Evaluation of Corporate Top Management Motivation

11 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2016

Sergey Yashin

Lobachevsky State University of Nizhny Novgorod - Department of Management and Public Administration

Yuriy Trifonov

Lobachevsky State University of Nizhni Novgorod

Egor Koshelev

Lobachevsky State University of Nizhny Novgorod - Department of Management and Public Administration

Date Written: February 23, 2016

Abstract

The majority of present-day investigators have come to the general consensus, according to which for an objective evaluation of the top management activities in a company, it is imperative that the results of their performance be evaluated by the market, rather than by the subjective human factor (in the person of the same top managers). With all attractiveness of evaluating top-managers' motivation through the use of warrants, it is evident that this motivation, as any other, must have a certain value for the company that needs to be pre-evaluated. In order to valuate European options, the Black-Scholes model is used in most cases since it provides a conservative, i.e. lowest, option value. However, for more realistic corporate business presentation, a model with dividends for a European-type warrant should be used. In such a case, the warrant and stock values can be theoretically adjusted until the warrant value has become equal to zero. The stock value, however, will significantly decrease as compared to the original market value. But in actual practice, markets ineffectually respond to issuing warrants by companies; therefore, the stock value declines in a minor way. You may wish to decide upon that adjustment of the fair stock price, which would be following the first specification of the fair warrant price. In this case, the price of motivating top managers using warrants is calculated through multiplying the magnitude of reduction in the stock value by the number of the company shares in circulation.

Keywords: top management motivation, warrants, Black-Scholes model with dividends

JEL Classification: D33, G31, G34, G35, M12

Suggested Citation:

Yashin, Sergey and Trifonov, Yuriy and Koshelev, Egor, Warrant-Based Evaluation of Corporate Top Management Motivation (February 23, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2736839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2736839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,681
RANK
897,300
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies