Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Function Quality and Financial Reporting – Results of a Survey On German Listed Companies

Journal of Management and Governance. Vol. 21 (2017), p. 291-329.

39 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2016 Last revised: 11 Jan 2019

Marius Gros

Niederrhein University of Applied Sciences; Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Sebastian Koch

Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Christoph Wallek

Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Date Written: February 26, 2016

Abstract

Most prior studies on internal audit function (IAF) quality and financial reporting have focused on the US setting and have found a positive association between IAF Quality proxies and both financial reporting quality and audit efficiency. In this study, we apply the German setting that is characterized by a two-tier board system of corporate governance and different prerequisites for the serving-two-masters problem. This might weaken the IAF's ability to monitor financial reporting-related processes. To analyze this, we use survey data to measure IAF quality in the German setting and run multiple regressions to examine the association of several IAF quality characteristics and a selfdeveloped IAF quality score with financial reporting quality and audit efficiency. The results show that also in a two-tier system, a high-quality IAF is able to contribute to both financial reporting quality and audit efficiency. Our findings support the notion that the IAF serves as an essential element of effective corporate governance and plays an important role in financial reporting. Moreover, as a practical implication of interest to regulators and managers, we identify that the external certification of the IAF and internal audit-related certifications of IAF employees may contribute to higher financial reporting quality and lower audit fees.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Internal Controls, Financial Reporting Quality, Audit Efficiency, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: K22, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gros, Marius F. and Koch, Sebastian and Wallek, Christoph, Internal Audit Function Quality and Financial Reporting – Results of a Survey On German Listed Companies (February 26, 2016). Journal of Management and Governance. Vol. 21 (2017), p. 291-329., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2737384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities. Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 34 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Statements on auditing standards No. 65: The auditor's consideration of the internal audit function in an audit of financial statements
AICPA SAS , issue 65 Posted: 2013-10-15
J S Armstrong , T S Overton
Estimating nonresponse bias in mal surveys
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 14 , p. 396 - 402 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,359
RANK
409,437
2 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies