Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Financial Reporting Quality Related to Corporate Social Responsibility Practices? Evidence from Family Firms

European Accounting and Management Review, 2(1), 1-45

48 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2016

Jennifer Ferrero

Multidisciplinary Institute for Enterprise (IME), University of Salamanca

Lázaro Rodríguez Ariza

University of Granada

Beatriz Cuadrado‐Ballesteros

University of Salamanca

Date Written: November 3, 2015

Abstract

The aim of this research is to highlight the relationship between financial reporting quality and corporate social responsibility (CSR) on the family firm sphere. Using a database of 1275 companies for the period 2002–2010 and the GMM estimator of Arellano and Bond (1991) for panel data, our results show that those companies that report high-quality financial statements promote more CSR practices. However, this relationship is weaker in family firms which support the existence of an entrenchment effect that associates greater family ownership with poor-quality information. We argue that family firms differ from non-family regarding the effect of financial reporting quality on the level of CSR practices.

Keywords: financial reporting quality (FRQ), earnings quality, corporate social responsibility (CSR), family business

Suggested Citation:

Ferrero, Jennifer and Rodríguez Ariza, Lázaro and Cuadrado‐Ballesteros, Beatriz, Is Financial Reporting Quality Related to Corporate Social Responsibility Practices? Evidence from Family Firms (November 3, 2015). European Accounting and Management Review, 2(1), 1-45, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2737296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,952
RANK
193,883
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies