Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Corporate Innovation Key to Capital Market Industry Sustainability? Evidence from Delisting Hazard of Malaysian Companies

28 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2016

King Yoong Lim

International Business School Suzhou

Date Written: November 27, 2014

Abstract

The year 2011 saw the launch of the National Innovation Strategy and Capital Market Masterplan 2 in Malaysia, underlining an increasingly important national agenda of innovation-led growth. As the Malaysian capital market is expected to face greater challenge to expand its market size against the backdrop of growing international competition, market capitalization growth needs to be internally driven. However, the market has seen large delisting flows and underperformance of new listings in recent years, and inadequate corporate innovation may play a role. Using reported R&D expenditure as indicator for corporate innovation, we apply formal survival modelling technique onto corporate financial data of Malaysian Public Listed Companies (PLCs) to investigate the impact of innovation on public listing duration of companies. We find that innovative PLCs face lower delisting hazards when controlling for market capitalisation and sector classification. A PLC with positive reporting of R&D expenditure would face merely 15.8-17.8 percent of the hazards of a non-R&D company, and the marginal benefit of an additional ringgit spent on R&D is most significantly felt by Malaysian PLCs classified under the Technology sector, followed by asset-rich PLCs predominantly in the Plantation sector. There is also evidence that the quality of new listing pipeline in Malaysia has indeed declined over the years. Non-innovating mid-cap companies are also found to face the largest delisting hazards, followed by non-innovating small-cap companies, calling for more effective corporate innovation reporting to reduce information risk faced by investors.

Keywords: Capital market industry, Corporate Innovation, Delisting Hazard, Malaysia, Survival Modelling

JEL Classification: C41, G15, G39, O32

Suggested Citation:

Lim, King Yoong, Is Corporate Innovation Key to Capital Market Industry Sustainability? Evidence from Delisting Hazard of Malaysian Companies (November 27, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2739076 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2739076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,644
RANK
653,768
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies