Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance in Germany: Recent Developments and Challenges

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 27, No.4, Fall 2015

HHL Research Paper Series in Corporate Governance No. 13, November 2015

21 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2016

Marc Steffen Rapp

University of Marburg - School of Business & Economics; University of Marburg - Marburg Centre for Institutional Economics (MACIE); Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

Christian Strenger

DWS Investments; Handelshochschule Leipzig (HHL)

Date Written: November 1, 2015

Abstract

The traditional German corporate governance system has developed against the background of a pay-as-you-go pension system and the consensus-oriented German culture. The system that emerged was characterized by influential banks and bank loans being the main source of outside financing for the corporate sector. However, as the economic and regulatory environment changed over the last 25 years, the corporate sector shifted towards more equity financing, and more generally towards more market-oriented sources of finance. Simultaneously, the banking sector saw major transformations and Germany enacted a series of regulatory initiatives to modernize its corporate governance. As a result, the German corporate governance system developed notably with international and minority shareholder gaining influence at the expense of banks and other insiders. While this development – which is strongly influenced by the Anglo-American governance ideal, but does not simply adopt a market-oriented blueprint – is still ongoing, several open issues with room for improvement remain.

Keywords: Corporate governance, ownership structure, bank influence, board structure, codetermination, Germany

JEL Classification: G20, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Rapp, Marc Steffen and Strenger, Christian, Corporate Governance in Germany: Recent Developments and Challenges (November 1, 2015). Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, Vol. 27, No.4, Fall 2015 , HHL Research Paper Series in Corporate Governance No. 13, November 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2739601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
See Hopt
Posted: 2015
Crossref
Christian Andres , Erik Theisen
Setting a fox to keep the geese -Does the comply-or-complain principle work?
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 289 - 301 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Wolfgang Bessler , Wolfgang Drobetz , Julian Holler
The returns to hedge fund activism in Germany
European Financial Management , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 106 - 147 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Elson
The Bug At Volkswagen: Lessons in Co-Determination, Ownership, and Board Structure
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 36 - 42 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Wolfgang Drobetz , Paul P. Momtaz
Antitakeover Provisions and Firm Value: New Evidence from the M&A Market
Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming · 26 Pages · Posted: 17 Jan 2019 · Last revised: 26 May 2020 · Downloads: 1,299
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marc Steffen Rapp , Marco O. Sperling
Der Deutsche Corporate Governance Kodex als standardisierte Form der Corporate Governance Berichterstattung in der Finanzkommunikation (Corporate Governance Codes As a Mean of Ensuring Standardized Corporate Governance Reporting: The Example of the German Corporate Governance Code)
Forthcoming, 'Handbuch Investor Relations und Finanzkommunikation, Springer' · 30 Pages · Posted: 12 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 432
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,448
RANK
45,062
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies