Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Lending Practices and Borrower Reporting Quality: Evidence from Chinese State Bank Privatizations

66 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2016 Last revised: 12 Feb 2018

Deqiu Chen

University of International Business and Economics

Xuejiao Liu

University of International Business and Economics

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Sugata Roychowdhury

Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management

Date Written: January 21, 2018

Abstract

How do developments at lending institutions that alter the way they grant and monitor loans influence their borrowers’ financial reporting quality (FRQ)? We examine this question by investigating the influence that privatizations of Chinese state banks (CSBs) had on the quality of their borrowers’ financial statements. Using a difference-in-difference research design which compares changes in CSBs that issue Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) to those that do not, we find that bank-lending terms, including loan maturity, guarantee requirement, and interest spread, become more sensitive to borrowers’ return-on-assets (ROA) after a bank’s IPO. We also find that pursuant to the IPOs by their lending banks, various measures of borrowers’ FRQ improve significantly. Further, the increase in FRQ is more pronounced for borrowers from those IPO-issuing CSBs whose loan terms exhibit a larger increase in sensitivity to borrowers’ FRQ. These results suggest that post-privatization: (1) CSBs increase their reliance on borrowers’ operating performance for setting loan terms; (2) this increased reliance contributes to an improvement in the quality of the financial statements that provide the performance measures. Cross-sectional analysis reveals that the increases in sensitivity of loan terms to borrower performance, as well as borrowers’ FRQ are more pronounced for IPO-issuing CSBs experiencing a greater increase in board financial expertise or a greater decline in political connections following their IPOs.

Keywords: Privatization, Chinese State Banks, state bank IPOs, IPOs, lending practices, loan terms, financial reporting quality, earnings quality, borrower performance, political control, governance

JEL Classification: G1, G15, G18, G2, G21, G28, G3, G32, G38, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Deqiu and Liu, Xuejiao and Martin, Xiumin and Roychowdhury, Sugata, Changes in Lending Practices and Borrower Reporting Quality: Evidence from Chinese State Bank Privatizations (January 21, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2740919 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2740919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A K Lo
Do declines in bank health affect borrowers' voluntary disclosures? Evidence from international propagation of banking shocks
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 541 - 581 Posted: 2014
Crossref
T Luo , J Xue , H Zhang
The effect of the new accounting standards on value relevance of accounting information
China Accounting Review , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 140 Posted: 2008
X Martin , S Roychowdhury
Do financial market developments influence accounting practices? Credit default swaps and borrowers‫׳‬ reporting conservatism
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 80 - 104 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Michael Manove , Jorge Padilla , Marco Pagano
Collateral vs. Project Screening: A Model of Lazy Banks
RAND Journal of Economics, Vol. 32, No. 4, Winter, 2001, CSEF WORKING PAPER No. 10 Pages: 22 Posted: 1 Dec 1998 Last revised: 30 Dec 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,026
RANK
265,489
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies