Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Independent Directors and Controlling Shareholders

165 University of Pennsylvania Law Review, Issue 6 (May 2017).

52 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2016 Last revised: 26 Oct 2017

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Assaf Hamdani

Tel Aviv University; Buchman Faculty of Law; Coller School of Management; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 1, 2017

Abstract

Independent directors are an important feature of modern corporate law. Courts and lawmakers around the world increasingly rely on these directors to protect investors from controlling shareholder opportunism. In this Article, we argue that the existing director-election regime significantly undermines the ability of independent directors to effectively perform their oversight role. Both the election and retention of independent directors normally depend on the controlling shareholders. As a result, these directors have incentives to go along with controllers’ wishes, or, at least, inadequate incentives to protect public investors.

To induce independent directors to perform their oversight role, we argue, some independent directors should be accountable to public investors. This can be achieved by empowering investors to determine or at least substantially influence the election or retention of these directors. These “enhanced-independence” directors should play a key role in vetting “conflicted decisions,” where the interests of the controller and public investors substantially diverge, but not have a special role with respect to other corporate issues. Enhancing the independence of some directors would substantially improve the protection of public investors without undermining the ability of the controller to set the firm’s strategy.

We explain how the Delaware courts, as well as other lawmakers in the United States and around the world, can introduce or encourage enhanced-independence arrangements. Our analysis offers a framework of director election rules that allows policymakers to produce the precise balance of power between controlling shareholders and public investors that they find appropriate. We also analyze the proper role of enhanced-independence directors as well as respond to objections to their use. Overall, we show that relying on enhanced-independence directors, rather than independent directors whose election fully depend on the controller, can provide a better foundation for investor protection in controlled companies.

Note: Some earlier versions of this paper were circulated under the title “Making Independent Directors Work.”

Keywords: Controlling Shareholders, Corporate Control, Independent Directors, Corporate Governance, Agency Problems, Conflict of Interest, Self-Dealing, Controller Opportunism, Tunneling, Boards of Directors

JEL Classification: D21, G32, G34, G35, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Hamdani, Assaf, Independent Directors and Controlling Shareholders (April 1, 2017). 165 University of Pennsylvania Law Review, Issue 6 (May 2017)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2741738 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2741738
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
E G See , M Stephen , Bainbridge
Why a Board? Group Decisionmaking in Corporate Governance, 55 Vand
L. Rev , volume 1 , p. 49 - 50 Posted: 2002
C Donald , Langevoort
The Human Nature of Corporate Boards: Law, Norms, and the Unintended Consequences of Independence and Accountability , volume 797 Posted: 2001
Marleen A See Generally , O&apos;connor
The Enron Board: The Perils of Groupthink
U L Cin , Rev
, volume 1233 Posted: 2003
Load more
10 Citations
Joel F. Houston , Jongsub Lee , Hongyu Shan
In Search of Board Independence: Former Employees, Shades of Gray and Director Classifications Revisited
61 Pages · Posted: 17 Aug 2016 · Last revised: 12 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 468
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tom Vos
‘Baby, It's Cold Outside…’ – A Comparative and Economic Analysis of Freeze-Outs of Minority Shareholders
European Company and Financial Law Review Vol. 15, No. 1 · 46 Pages · Posted: 17 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 26 Jul 2018 · Downloads: 428
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Suman Banerjee , Ronald W. Masulis
Ownership, Investment and Governance: The Costs and Benefits of Dual Class Shares
ECGI - Finance Working Paper No. 352/2013, FIRN Research Paper, Stevens Institute of Technology School of Business Research Paper · 65 Pages · Posted: 30 Nov 2012 · Last revised: 18 Jan 2018 · Downloads: 1,300
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Giovanni Strampelli
How to Enhance Directors’ Independence at Controlled Companies
Journal of Corporation Law, Forthcoming, Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 3257432 · 55 Pages · Posted: 19 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 7 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 366
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,054
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,365
RANK
9,395
10 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies