Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors’ Social Networks and Firm Efficiency: Astructural Embeddedness Perspective

China Journal of Accounting Studies Volume 2, Issue 1, 2014

27 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2016 Last revised: 21 Nov 2019

Yunsen Chen

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Date Written: January 3, 2014

Abstract

The performance of firms is usually influenced by their structural embeddedness in social networks. This paper investigates the effects of structural hole positions of directors on their firms’ operating and investing efficiency,from a corporate finance perspective. We build an interlocking network of the directors in Chinese listed companies, and compute the network constraint index to represent the richness of structural holes in this network. The empirical results show that firms with more structural holes are more efficient in both operating and investing activities (through the channel of reducing their firms’ under-investment problems), and these relations are more pronounced in competitive industries. Further tests find that firms with more structural holes perform better over time. The results suggest that a firm’s ‘structural hole position’ plays an important role in firm efficiency. These findings provide new evidence for the emerging literature of social networks and corporate finance.

Keywords: board network, investing efficiency, operating efficiency, social network, structural hole

JEL Classification: G30, L14, M00

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yunsen, Directors’ Social Networks and Firm Efficiency: Astructural Embeddedness Perspective (January 3, 2014). China Journal of Accounting Studies Volume 2, Issue 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2741773
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
G Ahuja
Collaboration networks, structural holes, and innovation: A longitudinal study
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 45 , p. 425 - 455 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J A Baum , T J Rowley , A V Shipilov , Y Chuang
Dancing with strangers: Aspiration performance and the search for underwriting syndicate partners
Administrative Science , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 536 - 575 Posted: 2005
Crossref
G C Biddle , G Hilary , R S Verdi
How does financial reporting quality relate to investment efficiency?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , p. 112 - 131 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Bizjak , M Lemmon , R &amp;whitby
Option backdating and board interlocks
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 4821 - 4847 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,134
RANK
511,510
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies