Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Network and Trade Credit: Evidence Based on Structural Holes

China Accounting and Finance Review, March, 2015

36 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2016 Last revised: 21 Nov 2019

Yunsen Chen

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE)

Date Written: March 3, 2015

Abstract

Firm’s social network can bring about competition advantage, while trade credit may reflect the competitiveness of firm’s business operations, but it is a pity that there is a lack of studies on the social network and business credit. This paper investigate the influence of different degrees of structure holes the firm’s network position and its trade credit. Defining network as directors’ interlocking position and using social network analysis to compute the structural hole position, empirical results find that, firms with more structural holes can get more trade credits and enhance its competition advantage in product market, and also can decrease the “trade credit-cash” sensitivity, this result remains after controlling the endogeneity problem and influence of network centrality measure; additional analysis show that, the influence of structural hole position to trade credit is more obvious in more competently industries of marketization. Moreover, the role of structural holes on trade credit mainly exists in firms with worse information environment, lager scale and longer listing age, and on looser monetary time. The results suggest that trade credit is important for firms’ getting business advantage. Our conclusion can contribute to the ‘social network and corporate finance’ literature.

Keywords: Structural Hole, Social Network, Board Network, Trade Credit, Product Market Competition

JEL Classification: G30, L14, M00

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Yunsen, Social Network and Trade Credit: Evidence Based on Structural Holes (March 3, 2015). China Accounting and Finance Review, March, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2741779
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
*** , *
and * indicate 0.01, 0.05, and 0.10 significance levels, respectively. The results are clustered at the firm level
G References Ahuja
Collaboration networks, structural holes, and innovation: A longitudinal study
Administrative' Science Quarterly , volume 45 , p. 425 - 455 Posted: 2000
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J A Baum , T J Rowley , A V Shipilov , Y Chuang
Dancing with strangers: Aspiration performance and the search for underwriting syndicate partners
Administrative Science , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 536 - 575 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,771
RANK
373,551
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies