Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Effectiveness of Internal Governance Controls: The Case of Internal Auditors Skills and Challenges in Libya

Corporate Ownership and Control Journal, March 2016

28 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2016

Ibrahim Elmghaamez

University of Huddersfield Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: March 6, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: The main aim of this research is to assess the effectiveness of internal governance controls and processes with specific focus on the skills and challenges facing internal auditors operating in Libya when they conduct internal audits. This study also investigates whether Libyan internal auditors have sufficient skills needed to implement their internal audit function effectively.

Design/methodology/approach: Forty one internal auditors working in six banks and three insurance companies listed on the Libyan Stock Market were surveyed. Wilcoxon signed test and Z-test were used to test the research hypotheses.

Findings: The findings of this study illustrate that internal auditors operating in companies listed on the Libyan Stock Market have limited professional, interpersonal and technical skills. Specifically, the findings show that internal auditors in Libya have limited skills including public speaking and presentation skills. Additionally, they have limited skills of IT audit and international financial report preparation skills.

Originality/value: There is a dearth of empirical evidence on the extent of audit, interpersonal, professional and technical skills relating to internal auditors generally, but particularly acute in Arab and developing countries. This study, therefore, contributes to the literature by offering new insights with particular focus on Libya.

Paper type: Research paper.

Keywords: Internal governance controls, internal audit, internal audit function, challenges, Libyan Stock Market, Libya

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M4

Suggested Citation:

Elmghaamez, Ibrahim and Ntim, Collins G., Assessing the Effectiveness of Internal Governance Controls: The Case of Internal Auditors Skills and Challenges in Libya (March 6, 2016). Corporate Ownership and Control Journal, March 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742853
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
R Abdullah
Redefining Internal Audit Performance: Impact on corporate Governance
Faculty of Business and Law Posted: 2014
W O Abuazza , D G Mihret , K James , P Best
The perceived scope of internal audit function in Libyan public enterprises
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 560 - 58 Posted: 2015
Crossref
A Abu-Musa
Information technology and its implications for internal auditing: An empirical study of Saudi organizations
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 23 , p. 5 - 438 Posted: 2008
M B Adams
Agency theory and the internal audit
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 9 , issue 8 , p. 8 - 12 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
397
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,107
RANK
170,079
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies