Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation-Induced Disclosures: Is 'More' Actually 'Less'?

67 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2016

Joost Impink

University of Florida

Mari Paananen

School of Business, Economics and Law, University of Gothenburg; University of Gothenburg - Department of Accounting and Finance

Annelies Renders

BI Norwegian School of Business

Date Written: March 4, 2016

Abstract

Regulators and practitioners have expressed concerns that accounting disclosures have become too much and too complex resulting in negative consequences for companies and financial statement users. We investigate whether more regulation-induced disclosures are associated with more effort to prepare and use financial statements. We create an index measuring firms’ exposure to regulation-induced disclosures. We show that a higher index is associated with longer 10-Ks, a longer reporting delay and higher audit fees. A higher index is also associated with fewer analysts following the firm, lower analyst accuracy and a higher dispersion. Our findings suggest that increases in regulation-induced disclosures have unintended consequences.

Keywords: Accounting disclosures, regulation, information overload, textual analysis, analysts

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Impink, Joost and Paananen, Mari and Paananen, Mari and Renders, Annelies, Regulation-Induced Disclosures: Is 'More' Actually 'Less'? (March 4, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2742059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
B Bratten , P Choudhary , K Schipper
Evidence that market participants assess recognized and disclosed items similarly when reliability is not an issue
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 4 , p. 1179 - 1210 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M J Brennan , P J Hughes
Stock prices and the supply of information
The Journal of Finance , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 1665 - 1691 Posted: 1991
Crossref
M J Brennan , A Subrahmanyam
Investment analysis and price formation in securities markets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 361 - 381 Posted: 1995
Crossref
L D Brown , A C Call , M B Clements , N Y Sharp
Inside the "Black Box" of SellSide Financial Analysts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 47 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
350
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,394
RANK
195,765
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies