Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Endogenous Contract Selection on Budgetary Slack: An Experimental Examination of Trust, Distrust, and Trustworthiness

47 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2016 Last revised: 6 Apr 2017

Jeremy Douthit

University of Arizona - Dhaliwal-Reidy School of Accountancy

Steven T. Schwartz

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Douglas E. Stevens

Georgia State University - Robinson College of Business

Richard A. Young

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: January 10, 2017

Abstract

We examine the effect of endogenous contract selection on budgetary slack using two slack-inducing contracts found in the literature: a trust contract where the superior must accept the subordinate’s budget and a discretion contract where the superior can accept or reject the budget. Because neither contract incorporates a formal control for budgetary slack, we apply insights from both agency theory and social norm theory to develop our theoretical expectations. We hypothesize and find that budgetary slack is lower for both contracts when they are endogenously selected by the superior than when they are exogenously assigned. Consistent with our theoretical expectations, exit questionnaire responses suggest that selecting a trust contract signals trust and expectations of trustworthiness whereas selecting a discretion contract signals distrust and an increased willingness to enforce trustworthiness by rejecting unreasonable budgets. Signaling distrust, however, appears optimal for superiors in our budgeting setting. In particular, far more superiors select the discretion contract under endogenous contract selection and doing so yields the efficiency of the optimal hurdle contract prescribed under traditional agency assumptions.

Keywords: endogenous contract selection, trust, distrust, trustworthiness

JEL Classification: C91, D83, M40

Suggested Citation:

Douthit, Jeremy and Schwartz, Steven T. and Stevens, Douglas E. and Young, Richard A., The Effect of Endogenous Contract Selection on Budgetary Slack: An Experimental Examination of Trust, Distrust, and Trustworthiness (January 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2742353
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R Antle , G Eppen
Capital rationing and organizational slack in capital budgeting
Management Science , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Antle , J Fellingham
Models of capital investments with private information and incentives: A Selective review
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 24 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 887 - 908 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R Baron , D Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , issue 6 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
A Ben-Ner , F Halldorsson
Trusting and trustworthiness: What they are, how to measure them, and what affects them
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 64 - 79 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,050
RANK
209,480
17 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies