Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Board Independence on the Quality of Community Disclosures in Annual Reports

Accounting Forum, Volume 39, Issue.4, pp. 249–267

Posted: 7 Mar 2016

Kemi C. Yekini

De Montfort University, Leicester Business School

Ismail A. Adelopo

De Montfort University - Leicester Business School

Panagiotis Andrikopoulos

Centre for Financial and Corporate Integrity (CFCI), Coventry University

Liafisu Yekini

Coventry University

Date Written: December 2015

Abstract

This study investigates the link between board independence and the quality of community disclosures in annual reports. Using content analysis and a panel dataset from UK FTSE350 companies the results indicate a statistically significant relationship between board independence, as measured by the proportion of non executive directors, and the quality of community disclosures, while holding constant other corporate governance and firm specific variables. The study indicates that companies with more non-executive directors are likely to disclose higher quality information on their community activities than others. This finding offers important insights to policy makers who are interested in achieving optimal board composition and furthers our understanding of the firm’s interaction with its corporate and extended environment through high-quality disclosures. The originality of this paper lies in the fact that it is the first to specifically examine the relationship between outside directors and community disclosures in annual reports. The paper contributes both to the corporate governance and community disclosure literature.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Non-executive directors, Board composition, Community disclosures, Stakeholders theory

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Yekini, Kemi C. and Adelopo, Ismail A. and Andrikopoulos, Panagiotis and Yekini, Liafisu, Impact of Board Independence on the Quality of Community Disclosures in Annual Reports (December 2015). Accounting Forum, Volume 39, Issue.4, pp. 249–267, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2742709
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,065
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies