Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Internal Mechanisms of Governance on the Trade Performance of the Tunisian Financial Institutions

26 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2016

Nejia Nekaa

University of Sfax - Faculty of Economics and Management (FSEGS)

Sami Boudabbous

University of Sfax

Date Written: March 7, 2016

Abstract

To meet the challenges of the financial institutions, the support of the performance are to treat. This research symbolizes an attempt to persuade some. Indeed, the performance of companies represents a field of study very varied. As well, governance, via its mechanisms, is a tool for the improvement of the performance. Then, the objective of the article is to inspect empirically the effects of internal mechanisms of governance on the trade performance of the Tunisian financial institutions.

The econometrics of the data allows us to study a sample composed of 34 financial institutions. We find that the results dealing with the impact of governance on the commercial performance are mixed.

Keywords: commercial performance, internal mechanisms of governance

Suggested Citation:

nekaa, nejia and Boudabbous, Sami, Impact of Internal Mechanisms of Governance on the Trade Performance of the Tunisian Financial Institutions (March 7, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2743253 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2743253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Abbott L Parker
audit committee characteristics and auditor selection
Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
N Abdennadher , Bellalah , Hergli
corporate governance and market values in Tunisia
4th International Finance Conference Posted: 2007
Amara
The impact of the relationship "ethics-confidence" on the intention of the purchase of the consumer: the case of environmentally friendly products
The Journal of Management Sciences , volume 234 , p. 53 - 64 Posted: 2008
Anderson , Campbell The
Corporate governance of Japanese banks
Journal of Corporate Governance , volume 10 , p. 327 - 354 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,209
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies