Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Ownership Types and Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices of Firms Listed on Indian Stock Exchange

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 7- 29, 2016

23 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2016 Last revised: 10 Mar 2016

Pankaj M. Madhani

Former Dean (Academics) & Professor

Abstract

Corporate governance is an institutional arrangement that not only addresses the agency problem between shareholders and managers of the firm, but also provides the context for the decisions taken by the top management of the firm. In this context, the main question is whether ownership types influence corporate governance practices of firms. This research empirically studies corporate governance and disclosure practices of firms segregated according to types of ownership, i.e., foreign firms, private sector firms and public sector firms. Such firms are diverse entities with different management philosophy, responsibility and structure.

This research focuses on firms across various sectors listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and seeks to identify whether corporate governance and disclosure practices of foreign firms, private sector and public sector firms are significantly different. The research also emphasizes the salient features of firms according to ownership types. The findings shed light on the governance and disclosure practices of firms segregated according to ownership types in the legal and institutional environment of India.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Disclosure, Ownership Types, MNCs, Bombay Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Madhani, Pankaj M., The Relationship between Ownership Types and Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices of Firms Listed on Indian Stock Exchange. The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 7- 29, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2743027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
G Alpay , M Bodur , H Ener , C Talug
Comparing Board-Level Governance at MNEs and Local Firms: Lessons from Turkey
Journal of International Management , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 86 Posted: 2005
Crossref
H Y Baek , D Johnson , J W Kim
Managerial Ownership, Corporate Governance, and Voluntary Disclosure
Journal of Business and Economic Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 44 - 61 Posted: 2009
M L Bhasin , M Reddy
Corporate Governance Disclosure Practices: The Portrait of a Developing Country
International Journal of Business & Management , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 150 - 167 Posted: 2010
Asish K. Bhattacharyya , Ajitava Raychaudhuri , Sadhalaxmi Vivek Rao
Economic Consequences of 'Regulation on Corporate Governance': Evidence from India
Pages: 21 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 11 May 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,637
RANK
242,713
1 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies