Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of an Audit Committee on the Stock Market Performance of Tunisian Banks

10 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2016

Ammar Samout

University of Sfax - Faculty of Economics and Management (FSEGS)

Nejia Nekaa

University of Sfax - Faculty of Economics and Management (FSEGS)

Date Written: March 7, 2016

Abstract

Corporate governance is an essential instrument for improving performance. For this reason, many researchers are interested to verify if governance mechanisms they explain a significant performance. That's what we try to assess the level of the study examining the impact of the presence of an audit committee on the market performance of Tunisian banks.

Keywords: Audit Committee, governance, performance, stocks market, banks, Tunisian

JEL Classification: ARN

Suggested Citation:

Samout, Ammar and nekaa, nejia, Impact of an Audit Committee on the Stock Market Performance of Tunisian Banks (March 7, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2743251 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2743251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
 Abbott , &amp; Parker , S
Auditor Selection and Audit Committee characteristics
Auditing": A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
 Anderson , Campbell The
Corporate governance of Japanese banks
Journal of Corporate Governance , volume 10 , p. 327 - 354 Posted: 2004
Crossref
. M Beasley , Petronic K
Board independence and audit firm type
Journal of practice and theory , volume 20 , p. 97 - 114 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Intadaviqotul Minakh , Erwin Saraswati , Abdul Ghofar
The effect of financial and non-financial performance on investors’ reactions: The role of corporate governance mechanisms as moderating
International Journal of Research in Business and Social Science (2147- 4478) , volume 10 , issue 8 , p. 47 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,365
RANK
444,118
1 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies