Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Disclosure of Intangible Resources and Stock Profitability

Intangible Capital, 2009 - 5(1)

32 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2016 Last revised: 16 Mar 2016

Clea Beatriz Macagnan

University of Vale do Rio dos Sinos (Unisinos), Unisinos Business School; Visiting Professor

Date Written: November 10, 2008

Abstract

The present study analyzes the extent of voluntarily disclosed information about intangible resources, in the annual report of companies from Spain’s capital market, as well as the possibility of there being a correlation between that disclosure and the effective profitability of the stock. In methodological terms, the present research has used semiotic analysis, in order to construe indicators and indexes, and the technique of logistic regression, to analyze the probability of the implication between disclosure and stock profitability. The considerations that were established go against the assumption that the extent of voluntarily disclosed information results in greater stock profitability, in the year following the publication of the company’s annual report, when results are found to be higher than average. On the other hand, the analysis presents statistically meaningful results, recognizing the probability of a decrease in stock profitability, in the year following the publication of information.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, information, stock profitability

JEL Classification: D80

Suggested Citation:

Macagnan, Clea Beatriz, Voluntary Disclosure of Intangible Resources and Stock Profitability (November 10, 2008). Intangible Capital, 2009 - 5(1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2745942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
B Lev
Intangibles: Medición, Gestión e Información Posted: 2003
S Leventis , P Weetman
Exploring and Explaining Variations in Voluntary Disclosure in a European Emerging Capital Market: Evidence from the Posted: 2000
Athens Stock Exchange
C B Macagnan
Factores explicativos da revelación de información de activos intangibles de empresas que cotizan en España Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
741
RANK
514,660
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies