Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pawn or Potentates: Corporate Governance in Indian Central Public Sector Enterprises

28 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2016 Last revised: 4 Feb 2019

Ritika Jain

Centre for Development Studies (CDS) India

Dr. Rajnish Kumar

Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR)

Date Written: February 2017

Abstract

The Department of Public Enterprises had made submissions of Self Evaluation Reports, for the purpose of corporate governance, mandatory for all central government owned enterprises. Despite this, an alarming 40% of the enterprises did not do so. This study examines the impact of external policy tools and internal firm specific factors on corporate governance of central public sector enterprises (CPSEs). We use a dataset of all manufacturing and non-financial services owned by the central government of India for the year 2010-11. Using probit, ordered logit and Heckman’s sample selection models, the study finds that the probability and quality of corporate governance is positively influenced by the CPSE getting into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the central government of India, and hence, enjoying more autonomy in terms of day to day operations. Besides these, internal factors, including bigger size and lower debt size contribute significantly to better corporate governance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, central public sector enterprises (CPSEs), sample selection, Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), ordered logit, disinvestment

JEL Classification: G34, L32

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Ritika and Kumar, Rajnish, Pawn or Potentates: Corporate Governance in Indian Central Public Sector Enterprises (February 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2746288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2746288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
B Black , H Jang , W Kim
Does corporate governance predict firms' market values? Evidence from
Economics, and Organization , volume 22 , p. 366 - 413 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Cheung , T Connelly , P Limpaphayom , L Zhou
Determinants of Corporate Disclosure and Transparency: Evidence from Hong Kong and Thailand
Controversies in International Corporate Responsibility Posted: 2008
A Chhibber , S ; C Gupta , J Gedvilas , A Lozano-Vivas
Public Sector Undertakings: Bharat's Other Ratnas. NIPFP Working Paper Curi
Evidence from Lithuania. Modern Economy , volume 7 , p. 1339 - 1360 Posted: 2016
S Gunasekar , J Sarkar
Does autonomy matter in state-owned enterprises? Evidence from performance contracts in India Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,934
RANK
644,694
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies