Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Remuneration: (What) Can UK Learn from Cameroon

16 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2016

Ernestine Ndzi

University of Hertfordshire

Date Written: February 8, 2016

Abstract

Directors’ remuneration has become a contentious issue that many countries (including the UK and Cameroon) are into making laws to regulate it. The UK adopts a rather corrective measure by mainly highlighting the responsibility of the shareholders to curb excessive directors’ pay and further requiring companies to disclose information on directors’ pay. Cameroon does make basic provisions on what elements should make up the directors’ remuneration package and also vesting the shareholders with voting power on directors’ pay. Disclosure requirement in the UK and shareholder voting have proven to be ineffective in regulating directors’ pay, while basic provisions on directors’ pay and shareholder voting seems to be more effective in Cameroon. This article analysis the law on directors’ pay in the UK and Cameroon and further highlights lessons that the UK can learnt from Cameroon and vice versa.

Keywords: Directors’ remuneration, Shareholder voting, Disclosure requirement, Companies Act 2006, OHADA Treaty

Suggested Citation:

Ndzi, Ernestine, Executive Remuneration: (What) Can UK Learn from Cameroon (February 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2746627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2746627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Report on FTSE 100 Directors' Remuneration Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Jensen , W Meckling
Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behaviour, Agency Costs and Ownership Structure Posted: 1976
Crossref
T Buck , Bgm Bruce , H Main , Udueni
Long Term Incentive Plans, Executive Pay and UK Company Performance , volume 40 , p. 1709 - 1727 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulation
Pt , volume 4 , issue 8 , p. 26 - 27 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,340
RANK
702,914
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies