Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Takeover Protection in Quiet Life and Bonding Firms

57 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2016 Last revised: 15 Feb 2022

Eliezer M. Fich

Drexel University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Jarrad Harford

University of Washington; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Adam S. Yore

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Date Written: February 2, 2022

Abstract

Antitakeover measures are controversial because the evidence on their net effect on shareholders is mixed. We propose that for many firms, the potential bonding benefits outweigh the agency costs of the quiet life, explaining the mixed results. We study business combination and poison pill laws as exogenous shocks to takeover vulnerability and use shareholder valuation of internal slack as an indicator of the net effect of takeover protection. We find that there is considerable heterogeneity in how the value of slack responds. Firms susceptible to quiet life agency problems exhibit a decrease in the market-assessed value of internal slack. Conversely, cash appreciates at companies where takeover protection helps bond commitments with major counterparties.

Keywords: Business combination laws; Poison pills; Quiet life; Bonding hypothesis; Cash value

JEL Classification: G30; G32; G34; K22; L14

Suggested Citation:

Fich, Eliezer M. and Harford, Jarrad and Yore, Adam S., The Effect of Takeover Protection in Quiet Life and Bonding Firms (February 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2748086 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2748086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
D J Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics Posted: 2009
I Appel
Governance by litigation Posted: 2019
C S Armstrong , K Balakrishnan , D Cohen
Corporate Governance and the Information Environment: Evidence From State Antitakeover Laws
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 185 - 204 Posted: 2012
J Atanassov
Do Hostile Takeovers Stifle Innovation? Evidence From Antitakeover Legislation and Corporate Patenting
The Journal of Finance , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 1097 - 1131 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
652
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,632
RANK
92,734
2 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies