Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Dissent on Say-on-Pay and CEO Compensation

34 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2016

Martin Conyon

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; Bentley University

Date Written: March 16, 2016

Abstract

The Dodd Frank Act (2010) empowered shareholders by mandating non-binding voting on executive compensation. This paper investigates the determinants of shareholder dissent on the say-on-pay proposal. Data on S&P1500 firms between 2010 and 2012 reveal various findings. First, fewer than 3% of firms failed to pass their say-on-pay proposals. Second, shareholder dissent on say-on-pay is higher in firms where CEO compensation is high or 'excessive', consistent with agency theory. Third, shareholder dissent is higher in firms with poor performance, measured by stock-market or accounting returns. Fourth, there is less dissent on say-on-pay in firms with better quality boardroom governance (e.g. the presence of a non-CEO lead director or hiring a major compensation consultant). Lastly, difference-in-difference estimates show that the growth in CEO pay is lower in firms that previously attracted high levels of dissent on say-on-pay.

Keywords: Say-on-pay; executive compensation

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Conyon, Martin, Shareholder Dissent on Say-on-Pay and CEO Compensation (March 16, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2748645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2748645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
G P Baker , M C Jensen , K J Murphy
Compensation and incentives: Practice vs. theory
Journal of Finance , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 616 Posted: 1988
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Executive compensation as an agency problem
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 71 - 92 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried
Pay without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
571
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,088
RANK
109,965
13 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies