Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Executives Behave Better When Dishonesty is More Salient?

58 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2016 Last revised: 17 Jun 2016

David C. Cicero

Harbert College of Business, Auburn University

Mi Shen

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Chinese Academy of Finance and Development

Date Written: June 2016

Abstract

In behavioral experiments, individuals are less likely to cheat at a task when the saliency of dishonesty is increased [Mazar, Amir, and Ariely (2008), Gino, Ayal, and Ariely (2009)]. We test a similar hypothesis in a real world setting by treating news about high-profile political scandals as shocks to the salience of unethical/illegal behavior and its consequences. We find that local corporate insiders engage in fewer suspect behaviors in the year after a political scandal is revealed. Their stock sales are less profitable and they are less likely to sell stock ahead of large price declines, suggesting less illegal insider trading. These patterns vary predictably with the level of media attention to scandal-related events during the scandal years. Locally headquartered firms also appear to engage in less earnings management following the revelation of a political scandal. However, these changes in executives’ behaviors appear to be largely transitory and the evidence of suspect behaviors resumes in following years.

Keywords: insider trading, earnings management, salience of dishonesty, salience of consequences

JEL Classification: G3, G30, K42

Suggested Citation:

Cicero, David C. and Shen, Mi, Do Executives Behave Better When Dishonesty is More Salient? (June 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2748258 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2748258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Viktoria Dalko , Michael H. Wang
Why is insider trading law ineffective? Three antitrust suggestions
Studies in Economics and Finance , volume 33 , issue 4 , p. 704 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,523
RANK
277,353
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies