Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting, Disclosure, and Corporate Governance

The Oxford handbook of Corporate Governance, Oxford University Press, 2013, Chapter 13, pp. 290-307, ISBN 9780199642007

Posted: 5 Apr 2016

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Marc Deloof

University of Antwerp; University of Antwerp - Antwerp Management School

Sophie Manigart

Vlerick Business School; Ghent University

Date Written: May 1, 2013

Abstract

Information serves an important role in the governance process and, despite the presence of disclosure regulations, there are many private and public firms that voluntarily provide more information than required. This chapter considers the advantages and disadvantages of voluntary disclosure at the firm and societal levels. It studies the empirical literature on the connection between a firm’s disclosure policies and its corporate governance, which reveals mixed evidence. The chapter determines that unforeseen events may be important and calls for further studies on disclosure in private firms.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, information, disclosure regulations, private firms, public firms

Suggested Citation:

Beuselinck, Christof and Deloof, Marc and Manigart, Sophie, Financial Reporting, Disclosure, and Corporate Governance (May 1, 2013). The Oxford handbook of Corporate Governance, Oxford University Press, 2013, Chapter 13, pp. 290-307, ISBN 9780199642007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2749118
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,195
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies