Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Benefits of Specific Risk-Factor Disclosures

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-49

60 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2016 Last revised: 16 Sep 2016

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Danqi Hu

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Hai Lu

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 15, 2016

Abstract

Practitioners have long criticized risk-factor disclosures in the 10-K as generic and boilerplate. In response, regulators emphasize the importance of being specific. By using a computing algorithm, this paper establishes a new measure (Specificity) to quantify the level of specificity of firms’ qualitative risk-factor disclosures. We first examine determinants of variations in Specificity and document that firms with high proprietary costs provide less specific risk-factor disclosures. More importantly, we find that, controlling for numerous determinants, the market reaction to the 10-K filing is positively and significantly associated with Specificity. In addition, our results suggest that analysts are better able to assess fundamental risk when firms’ risk-factor disclosures are more specific. Together, these findings suggest that more specific risk-factor disclosures benefit users of financial statements.

Keywords: Risk-Factor Disclosure, Specificity, Market Reactions, Trading Volume Reactions, Analyst Risk Assessments, Scenario Analysis

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G34, M41, M1, L20

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Hu, Danqi and Lu, Hai, The Benefits of Specific Risk-Factor Disclosures (September 15, 2016). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-49, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2749132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
711
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,654
RANK
16,758
140 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies