Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Benford's Law Explain CEO Pay?

Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2016

Shibashish Mukherjee

emlyon business school

Date Written: March 2016

Abstract

Manuscript Type: Empirical

Research Issue: This study applies the statistical properties of Benford’s Law to CEO pay. Benford’s ‘Law’ states that in an unbiased dataset, the first digit values are usually unequally allocated when considering the logical expectations of equal distribution. In this study we question whether the striking empirical properties of Benford’s Law could be used to analyse the negotiation power and preferences of CEOs. We argue that performance-based or market-determined compensations should follow Benford’s Law, demonstrating no direct negotiation by the CEOs. Conversely, deviation from Benford’s Law could reveal CEO negotiating power or even preference.

Research Findings: Our analysis shows that market-determined ‘Option Fair Value’ (the dollar value of stock options when exercised) conforms closely to Benford’s Law, as opposed to ‘Salary’, which is fully negotiated. ‘Bonus’, ‘Option Award’ and ‘Total Compensation’ are generally also largely consistent with Benford’s Law, but with some exceptions. We interpret these exceptions as negotiation by the CEOs. Surprisingly, we found that CEOs prefer to be paid in round figure values, especially ‘5’. We use Benford’s Law to study the negotiating powers of CEOs vs. that of Other Executives. Finally, we compare the negotiating tactics of CEOs before and after SOX and analyse the impact of firm size on their compensations.

Academic Implications: This study introduces Benford’s Law and its applications within the corporate governance literature.

Practitioner Implications: This method could be used by academics, industry and regulators to uncover compensation patterns within large business departments or/and organisations or even entire industry segments.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Benford's Law, Executive Compensation, Negotiating Power, Preference

JEL Classification: G34, M4, M12, M21

Suggested Citation:

Mukherjee, Shibashish, Can Benford's Law Explain CEO Pay? (March 2016). Corporate Governance: An International Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2753141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Summary Statistics: In this table, we report the distribution of Executives (incl. CEOs) over the years with key compensation variables , volume 2
Crossref
Ex
Tot. Ex./yr. gives the total Executives per year (incl. CEO). Tot. CEO/yr. gives the total CEO per year. Salary, Bonus, Op. Award, Op. FV, Total Comp.1 and Tot. Comp.2 gives the median of the variables, per firm per year. Panel B gives the time series averages, standard deviations, minimum, maximum, 1/4 percentile and 3/4 percentile values. Year Ex./yr
Tot. Ex./yr. Tot. CEO/yr. Salary Bonus Op. Award Op. FV Tot. Comp.1 Tot. Comp , volume 2
R M Abrantes-Metz , M Kraten , A D Metz , G S Seow
Libor manipulation
Journal of banking & finance , volume 36 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Y Aono , L Guan
The impact of sarbanes-oxley act on cosmetic earnings management , volume 20 , p. 205 - 215 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,419
RANK
592,557
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies