Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Antecedents of Voluntary Corporate Governance Disclosure: A Post-2007/08 Financial Crisis Evidence from the Influential UK Combined Code

Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society, 2016, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2016 Last revised: 26 Mar 2016

Mohamed Elmagrhi

University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield Business School, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH; Swansea University, School of Management; University of Huddersfield - Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Yan Wang

Leicester Business School, De Montfort University

Date Written: March 23, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: This study investigates the level of compliance with, and disclosure of, good corporate governance (CG) practices among UK publicly listed firms, and consequently ascertains whether board characteristics and ownership structure variables can explain observable differences in the extent of voluntary CG compliance and disclosure practices.

Design/Methodology/Approach: The study uses one of the largest datasets to-date on compliance and disclosure of CG practices from 2008 to 2013 containing 120 CG provisions drawn from the 2010 UK Combined Code relating to 100 UK listed firms to conduct multiple regression analyses of the determinants of voluntary CG disclosures. A number of additional estimations, including two stage least squares, fixed-effects and lagged structures, are conducted in order to test the robustness of the findings.

Findings: The results suggest that there is a substantial variation in the levels of compliance with, and disclosure of, good CG practices among the sampled UK firms. We also find that firms with larger board size, more independent outside directors and greater director diversity tend to disclose more CG information voluntarily, whereas the level of voluntary CG compliance and disclosure is insignificantly related to the existence of a separate CG committee and institutional ownership. Additionally, the results indicate that block ownership and managerial ownership impact negatively on voluntary CG compliance and disclosure practices. The findings are fairly robust across a number of econometric models that sufficiently address various endogeneity problems and alternative CG indices. Overall, the findings are generally consistent with the predictions of neo-institutional theory.

Originality/Value: This paper extends, as well as contributes to the extant CG literature by offering new evidence on compliance with, and disclosure of, good CG recommendations contained in the 2010 UK Combined Code following the 2007/08 global financial crisis. This paper also advances the existing literature by offering new insights from a neo-institutional theoretical perspective of the impact of board and ownership mechanisms on voluntary CG compliance and disclosure practices.

Keywords: Corporate governance; Board and ownership mechanisms; Comply or explain; Neo-institutional theory; UK Combined Code

JEL Classification: G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Ntim, Collins G. and Wang, Yan, Antecedents of Voluntary Corporate Governance Disclosure: A Post-2007/08 Financial Crisis Evidence from the Influential UK Combined Code (March 23, 2016). Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society, 2016, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2753919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
Nida Abdioglu , Vassiliki C. Bamiatzi , S. Tamer Cavusgil , Arif Khurshed , Konstantinos Stathopoulos
Information Asymmetry, Disclosure and Foreign Institutional Investment: An Empirical Investigation of the Impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 15-06 Pages: 54 Posted: 8 Apr 2015 Last revised: 28 Nov 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
E Adegbite
Good corporate governance in Nigeria: Antecedents, propositions and peculiarities
International Business Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 319 - 330 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance worldwide: What is the trigger? Organization Studies , volume 25 , p. 415 - 443 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Ahmed Sarhan , Collins G. Ntim , Basil Al-Najjar
Antecedents of Audit Quality in MENA Countries: The Effect of Firm- and Country-Level Governance Quality
Sarhan, A.A., Ntim, C.G., and Al-Najjar, B., ‘Antecedents of Auditor Choice and Fees in MENA Countries: The Effect of Firm- and Country-Level Governance’, Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, 35, 85-107, 2019, · 46 Pages · Posted: 9 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 139
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maretno Agus Harjoto , Yan Wang
Board of Directors Network Centrality and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Performance
Corporate Governance: An International Journal of Business in Society [2020 Forthcoming] · 37 Pages · Posted: 10 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 388
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thi Hong Hahn Nguyen , Collins G. Ntim , John Malagila
Women on Corporate Boards and Corporate Financial and Non-financial Performance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda
Nguyen, T.H.H., Ntim, C.G., & Malagila, J. (2020). ‘Women on corporate boards and corporate financial and non-financial performance: A systematic literature review and future research agenda’, International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., · 60 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 482
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Agyenim Boateng , Yan Wang , Collins G. Ntim , Keith Glaister
National Culture, Corporate Governance and Corruption: A Cross-country Analysis
Boateng, A., Wang, Y., Ntim, C.G., & Glaister, K.W. (2020). National Culture, Corporate Governance and Corruption: A Cross-country Analysis. International Journal of Finance and Economics, Forthcoming. · 47 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 117
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,145
RANK
487,089
7 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies