Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Managerial Ability in Corporate Tax Avoidance

Management Science, Forthcoming

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2753152

59 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2016

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Terry J. Shevlin

University of California-Irvine; University of California-Irvine

Daniel Wangerin

Wisconsin School of Business

Date Written: March 21, 2016

Abstract

Most prior studies model tax avoidance as a function of firm-level characteristics and do not consider how individual executive characteristics affect tax avoidance. This paper investigates whether executives with superior ability to efficiently manage corporate resources engage in greater tax avoidance. Our results show that moving from the lower to upper quartile of managerial ability is associated with a 3.15 (2.50) percent reduction in a firm’s one-year (five-year) cash effective tax rate (ETR). We examine how higher ability managers reduce income tax payments and find they engage in greater state tax planning activities, shift more income to foreign tax havens, make more R&D credit claims, and make greater investments in assets that generate accelerated depreciation deductions. Identifying a manager characteristic related to firms’ tax policy decisions adds to our understanding of the factors that explain the substantial variation in corporate income tax payments across firms.

Keywords: tax avoidance, management style, managerial ability

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Koester, Allison and Shevlin, Terry J. and Shevlin, Terry J. and Wangerin, Daniel D., The Role of Managerial Ability in Corporate Tax Avoidance (March 21, 2016). Management Science, Forthcoming, Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2753152, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2753152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
R Amit , P J Schoemaker
Strategic assets and organizational rent
Strategic Management Journal , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 1993
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
J. Accounting Econom , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Brad A. Badertscher , Sharon P. Katz , Sonja O. Rego , Ryan J. Wilson
Conforming Tax Avoidance and Capital Market Pressure
The Accounting Review, Forthcoming Pages: 67 Posted: 17 Jun 2015 Last revised: 22 Feb 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Baik , D B Farber , S Lee
CEO ability and management earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Res , volume 28 , issue 5 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,910
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,592
RANK
20,066
73 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies