Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supplier Internal Control Quality and the Duration of Customer-Supplier Relationships

The Accounting Review, Vol. 93, No. 3, 2018, pp. 59-82

Posted: 27 Mar 2016 Last revised: 24 Oct 2018

Andrew M. Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Darren Henderson

Wilfrid Laurier University

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: July 1, 2017

Abstract

Internal controls influence information quality, thus affecting the ability of supply chain partners, who rely on collaborative systems of information sharing, to reliably contract. Using SOX-related internal control assessments as a proxy for internal control quality and U.S. GAAP-mandated major customer disclosures, we find that supplier internal control quality influences supply chain relationship duration. Specifically, our evidence demonstrates that: 1) poor internal control quality increases the likelihood of subsequent customer-supplier relationship termination; 2) timely control weakness remediation attenuates termination likelihood; and 3) weaknesses affecting customer contracting drive the effect of internal control quality on relationship termination. Our results control for supplier operational quality and performance, and are robust to propensity score matching techniques, reverse causality, and alternative proxies for relationship termination and internal control quality. Overall, our findings are consistent with customers viewing strong supplier controls as important, albeit overlooked, contracting elements with significant implications for supply chain relationships.

Keywords: internal control; supply chain; contracting; information quality

JEL Classification: M40; M41; G30; D23; D82

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Andrew M. and Henderson, Darren and Lynch, Dan, Supplier Internal Control Quality and the Duration of Customer-Supplier Relationships (July 1, 2017). The Accounting Review, Vol. 93, No. 3, 2018, pp. 59-82, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2754760 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2754760
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,412
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies