Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trends of Voluntary Intellectual Capital Disclosure on Chinese Firm

Corporate Ownership and Control, January 2014

9 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2016

Yi An

University of Waikato - Management School

Harun

University of Canberra - Faculty of Business, Government and Law

Umesh Prasad Sharma

University of Waikato

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This research examines the trend of voluntary intellectual capital (IC) disclosure in China between 2006 and 2009, using content analysis of corporate annual reports of 100 top listed A-share Chinese companies. The results indicate that there was a generally upward trend for the disclosure of IC items, categories and the overall IC over the investigated period. Internal capital was the most highly reported IC category whereas external capital was the least reported for the year 2008 and 2009. For disclosure items, "management processes" was the best performer during the time while "licensing agreements" for 2006 and "research collaborations" for 2008 and 2009 were the poorest. It is believed that our research should have some contributions tot he existing literature on IC disclosure.;

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure, intellectual capital, tends, China

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

An, Yi and Harun, Harun and Sharma, Umesh Prasad, Trends of Voluntary Intellectual Capital Disclosure on Chinese Firm (2014). Corporate Ownership and Control, January 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2754844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,127
RANK
798,750
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies