Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Experienced Executives’ Views of the Effects of R&D Capitalization on Reputation-Driven Real Earnings Management: A Replication of Survey Data from Seybert (2010)

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming

Robert H. Smith School Research Paper No. RHS 2754382

Posted: 26 Mar 2016

Nicholas Seybert

University of Maryland - Department of Accounting & Information Assurance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 24, 2016

Abstract

This paper replicates the results of the survey of experienced executives reported in Section IV of Seybert (2010). Seybert retracted the survey data from the originally published article due to concerns about the source of the data. I survey 79 experienced executives to elicit their beliefs about reputation-driven real earnings management. Participants indicate that a manager would be more likely to continue a failing project, and that project abandonment would have a greater negative impact on the manager’s reputation concerns and future prospects at the firm, when R&D is capitalized. Consistent with capital market pressures identified in prior research, executives believe that abandoning a failing project would have a greater negative impact on stock price when R&D is capitalized, and they personally recommend continuing such a project in order to avoid missing the consensus analysts’ forecast. These findings complement the experimental results in Seybert (2010), and while they replicate the survey results contained therein, they are not an endorsement of the veracity of the original survey data.

Keywords: survey, replication, real earnings management, R&D, capitalization, experiment, capital market pressure

Suggested Citation:

Seybert, Nicholas, Experienced Executives’ Views of the Effects of R&D Capitalization on Reputation-Driven Real Earnings Management: A Replication of Survey Data from Seybert (2010) (March 24, 2016). Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming, Robert H. Smith School Research Paper No. RHS 2754382, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2754382
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,397
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies