Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation of Compensation and Systemic Risk: Evidence from the UK

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 16-07

86 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2016 Last revised: 17 Feb 2021

Anya Kleymenova

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

A. Irem Tuna

London Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 16, 2021

Abstract

This paper studies the consequences of regulating executive compensation at financial institutions by examining the introduction of the UK Remuneration Code in 2010, which aimed to change the decision-making horizon and risk-taking incentives of bank executives. We find that, although both banks and non-banks show increased contribution and sensitivity to systemic risk in the UK post-2010, this increase is lower for UK banks, in line with the intent of the regulation. However, UK banks also experience higher unforced CEO turnover when compared to other UK firms. Therefore, while the regulation may have had the desired effect on systemic risk, it may also have given rise to some unintended consequences.

Keywords: Executive compensation; financial institutions; regulation; systemic risk; UK Remuneration Code

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Kleymenova, Anya V. and Tuna, Ayse Irem, Regulation of Compensation and Systemic Risk: Evidence from the UK (February 16, 2021). Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 16-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2755621 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2755621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,666
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,697
RANK
24,749
9 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies