Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of M&A on the Nigerian Financial Market: A Pre-Post Analysis

Investment Management and Financial Innovation, 13 (1), pp. 138-150, 2016

23 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2016 Last revised: 14 Apr 2016

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Bunmi Agbeyo

University of Salford

Kirsten Jones

University of Huddersfield

Karim Sorour

University of Northumbria at Newcastle

Date Written: March 29, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) on the financial performance of the Nigerian market after consolidation. We use data from all Nigerian banks that survived the consolidation between 2001 and 2009. Logistic regression models are structured to determine the influence of M&A activities on the financial performance of the Nigerian market. Also, we critically evaluate our findings by shedding the light on the lessons other developing nations can learn from the Nigerian market. Our results show that M&A have a positive influence on the financial performance of the Nigerian market. Still, M&A are not enough to achieve the wider objectives of banking sector reform. Towards this end, corporate governance reform must take place vis-à-vis consolidation exercises especially when these M&A are regulatory based rather than market based. Our investigation uses a novel approach by comparing pre- and post-M&A results performance of merged banks as well as comparing these results with non-merged banks. Finally, the paper puts the results in context of the wider reform context and considers the effectiveness of the M&A as a tool for banking sector reform in developing countries. Our investigation offers insights into the policy of banking consolidation which can be useful for policy makers in Nigeria and other similar economies.

Keywords: Nigeria, Mergers and acquisitions (M&A), Financial market, Banking, Financial performance

JEL Classification: G34, G21, N27

Suggested Citation:

Abdou, Hussein A. and Agbeyo, Bunmi and Jones, Kirsten and Sorour, Karim, The Impact of M&A on the Nigerian Financial Market: A Pre-Post Analysis (March 29, 2016). Investment Management and Financial Innovation, 13 (1), pp. 138-150, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2756768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
H Abdou
An evaluation of alternative scoring models in private banking
The Journal of Risk Finance , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 38 - 53 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S A Abdullahi
Distress in the Nigerian banking industry: A critical assessment of the mature, causes and extent
Journal of Business Administration , volume 2 , p. 135 - 154 Posted: 2002
O Adebayo , O Olalekan
An Analysis of the Impact of Mergers and Acquisitions on Commercial Banks Performance in Nigeria
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 3 , issue 7 , p. 91 - 101 Posted: 2012
Crossref
K S Adeyemi
Banking Sector Consolidation in Nigeria: Issues and Challenges Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,027
RANK
286,433
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies