Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Co-Opted Directors Mitigate Managerial Myopia? Evidence from R&D Investments

13 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2016

Pandej Chintrakarn

Mahidol University International College (MUIC)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Sameh Sakr

Arab Academy for Science and Technology

Sangmook Lee

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Date Written: March 29, 2016

Abstract

We explore the effect of co-opted directors on R&D investments. Co-opted directors are those appointed after the incumbent CEO assumes office. Because a co-opted board represents a weakened governance mechanism that diminishes the probability of executive removal, managers are less likely to be removed and are more motivated to make long-term investments. Our evidence shows that board co-option leads to significantly higher R&D investments. To draw a causal inference, we execute a quasi-natural experiment using an exogenous regulatory shock from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX). Our results reveal that the effect of board co-option on R&D is more likely causal.

Keywords: co-opted directors, co-opted board, board co-option, R&D, myopia, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chintrakarn, Pandej and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Sakr, Sameh and Lee, Sangmook, Do Co-Opted Directors Mitigate Managerial Myopia? Evidence from R&D Investments (March 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2756172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2756172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
B Bushee
The influence of institutional investors on myopic R&D investment behavior
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , p. 305 - 333 Posted: 1998
J L Coles , N D Daniel , L Naveen
Co-opted boards
Review of Financial Studies , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 1751 - 1796 Posted: 2014
Crossref
James S. Linck , Jeffry M. Netter , Tina Yang
The Effects and Unintended Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on the Supply and Demand for Directors
AFA 2006 Boston Meetings Paper, FMA Online, Vol. #, No. #, Year, The Review of Financial Studies, v22n8 Pages: 54 Posted: 23 Mar 2005 Last revised: 4 Mar 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Lundstrum
Corporate investment myopia: A horserace of the theories
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 8 , p. 353 - 371 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,029
RANK
407,330
2 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies