Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of CEO Stock-Based Compensation on the Pricing of Future Earnings

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2016

Bobae Choi

University of Newcastle (Australia) - Newcastle Business School

Jae B. Kim

Lehigh University - College of Business & Economics

Date Written: March 31, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines whether CEO stock-based compensation has an effect on the market’s ability to predict future earnings. When stock-based compensation motivates managers to share their private information with shareholders, it will expedite the pricing of future earnings in current stock prices. In contrast, when equity-compensated managers attempt to temporarily manipulate the stock price to maximize their own benefit rather than that of shareholders, the market may not fully anticipate future performance. We find that a CEO’s stock-based compensation strengthens the association between current returns and future earnings, indicating that more information about future earnings is reflected in current stock prices. In addition, we find that the positive effect is weaker for firms that have a high level of signed discretionary accruals or a low management forecast frequency. Overall, our study suggests that on average, equity-based compensation improves the informativeness of stock prices about future earnings, while opportunistic discretionary accruals or lowered earnings guidance hamper this improvement.

Keywords: Executive compensation, stock-based compensation, FERC, information environment

JEL Classification: G39, J33, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Bobae and Kim, Jae Bum, The Effect of CEO Stock-Based Compensation on the Pricing of Future Earnings (March 31, 2016). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2757503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 14 - 22 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B Ayers , R Freeman
Evidence that analyst following and institutional ownership accelerate the pricing of future earnings
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 67 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B O K Baik , D B Farber , S A M Lee
CEO ability and management earnings forecasts
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 5 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Andros Gregoriou , Jerome Healy , Nhat (Nate) Q. Nguyen , Thi Thuy Trang Nguyen , Tri Tri Nguyen
Ceo's Long-Term Incentive Plan Compensation and the Adoption of Double Materiality for ESG Reporting: Evidence from the U.K
JPP-D-25-00018 · 35 Pages · Posted: 29 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,731
RANK
392,891
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies