Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards an Investigation of Credit Risk Determinants in Eurozone Countries

Accounting and Management Information Systems, Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 27-57, 2016

Posted: 5 Apr 2016

Vasiliki Makri

University of Patras - Business Administration

Date Written: April 3, 2016

Abstract

The main objective of this article is to define which macroeconomic and accounting factors determine loan quality, hence credit risk, in Eurozone. Non Performing Loans, Loan Loss Provisions and Loan Loss Reserves are used as proxies for loan portfolio quality. Through dynamic regression techniques, the empirical analysis is carried out at both aggregate and individual bank level data, from 2000 to 2012, including booming and instability periods of European economy. The evaluation of econometric results establishes that macroeconomic environment (public debt, economic activity and inflation) and accounting variables (past loan quality, bank size, capital ratio and liquidity) influence considerably credit risk in Euro countries.

Keywords: Credit risk, loan quality, non performing loans, loan loss provisions, loan loss reserves, accounting factors and macroeconomic factors

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Makri, Vasiliki, Towards an Investigation of Credit Risk Determinants in Eurozone Countries (April 3, 2016). Accounting and Management Information Systems, Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 27-57, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2758563
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,206
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies