Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effectiveness of Risk Management Committee and Hedge Accounting Practices in Malaysia

Information Journal Special Issues Vol. 19 (7B) July 2016

5 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2016 Last revised: 14 Nov 2016

Azrul Abdullah

Universiti Teknologi MARA; Fakultas Vokasi

Ku Nor Izah Ku Ismail

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 26, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the effectiveness of Risk Management Committee (RMC) in influencing hedge accounting practices among non-financial companies listed on the Bursa Malaysia. Our regression results reveal that that there is no significant relationship between the application of hedge accounting and the effectiveness of RMCs. However, there are positive and significant relationships between the choice of hedge accounting and each of company size and leverage. The implications of the findings were discussed.

Keywords: Hedge Accounting, Hedging Activities, Risk Management Committee, Corporate Governance, Financial Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Abdullah, Azrul and Ku Ismail, Ku Nor Izah, The Effectiveness of Risk Management Committee and Hedge Accounting Practices in Malaysia (January 26, 2016). Information Journal Special Issues Vol. 19 (7B) July 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2758428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
M Glaum , A Klocker
Hedge accounting and its influence on financial hedging: when the tail wags the dog
Accounting and Business Research , volume 41 , p. 459 - 489 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V T Papa , S J Peters
User Perspectives on Financial Instrument Risk Disclosures under Derivatives and Hedging Activities Disclosures Posted: 2013
M S Hassan , N M Saleh , P Yatim , M R C A Rahman
Risk Management Committee and Financial Instrument Disclosure
Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance , volume 3 , p. 13 - 28 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A J Pollock
FAS 133: what is accounting truth
Journal of applied corporate finance , volume 17 , p. 102 - 106 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
RANK
545,411
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies