Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Demand for Voluntary Audit in Micro-Companies: Evidence from Finland

Forthcoming in International Journal of Auditing

34 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2016

Hannu Ojala

University of Eastern Finland; Aalto University - School of Business

Jill Collis

Brunel University London - Brunel Business School

Juha Kinnunen

Aalto University School of Business

Lasse Niemi

Aalto University - School of Business

Pontus Troberg

Helsinki School of Economics

Date Written: March 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to uncover additional determinants of the demand for voluntary audit in micro-companies by investigating the internal management factors that have not yet been explored in prior literature. The hypotheses are developed from the literature and interviews with owner-managers of such companies, bank lenders and the tax authority. The study is based on archival data relating to some 50,000 Finnish micro-companies over the three-year period following the introduction of audit exemption in 2008. Our results show that the drivers of voluntary audit are (1) management needs to ensure security of supply from trade creditors, (2) the company is not in financial distress, (3) the company is growing, (4) management has a need for tax reporting credibility, and (5) ownership is dispersed. The results of this research will be of interest to the owners and managers of micro-companies, as well as the accounting and auditing profession.

Keywords: Audit theory, external audit, micro-companies, regulation

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M13

Suggested Citation:

Ojala, Hannu and Collis, Jill and Kinnunen, Juha and Niemi, Lasse and Troberg, Pontus, The Demand for Voluntary Audit in Micro-Companies: Evidence from Finland (March 2016). Forthcoming in International Journal of Auditing, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2759955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why Do Private Companies Demand Auditing? A Case for Organizational Loss of Control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Anderson , J R Gree , D J Stokes
Auditing, Directorships and the Demand for Monitoring
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 12 , p. 353 - 375 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Berger , G Udell
The Economics of Small Business Finance: The Roles of Private Equity and Debt Markets in the Financial Growth Cycle
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 22 , p. 613 - 673 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,036
RANK
359,199
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies