Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Internal Auditors Effectiveness: Case of Ethiopian Public Sectors

International Journal of Advances in Management and Economics, ISSN: 2278-3369

11 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2016

Tarekegn Ebissa

Debre Markos University

Date Written: Sep 6, 2015

Abstract

The main objective of this study is to investigate determinants of internal auditors' effectiveness in Ethiopian public sectors. Public sectors are established with the aim of providing basic public services effectively and efficiently to the whole society. The efficiency and effectiveness of management operations in public sectors, on the other hand, are ensured by the effectiveness of their employees. Internal auditors, the focus of this study and one key employee of public offices, are supposed to work independently and objectively to improve an organization's operations and services quality. Despite of their roles in public sectors, internal auditors have gained less credit from their management that doubts the effectiveness of internal auditors. To investigate determinants of internal auditors' effectiveness in public sectors, primary data was collected from managers and internal auditors by administrating Likert-Scale type questionnaire in 30 public sectors. The Ordinary Least Square (OLS) linear regression model was used to analysis the collected data. The findings of the study revealed that organizational independence of internal auditors was the most dominate determinant of internal auditors' effectiveness with positive significant effect. The presence of internal audit charter in public sectors has also positive effect on internal auditors' effectiveness. Thus, the management of public sectors should work aggressively on the means of assuring organizational independence of internal auditors and the presence of internal audit charter in each sector.

Keywords: Internal auditors' effectiveness, Public sectors, Ethiopia and Organizational independency

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Ebissa, Tarekegn, Determinants of Internal Auditors Effectiveness: Case of Ethiopian Public Sectors (Sep 6, 2015). International Journal of Advances in Management and Economics, ISSN: 2278-3369, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2759749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
D G Mihret , A W Yismaw
Internal audit effectiveness: an Ethiopian public sector case study
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 22 , p. 470 - 84 Posted: 2007
P Coram , C Ferguson , R Moroney
Internal audit, alternative internal audit structures and the level of misappropriation of assets fraud
Accounting and Finance , volume 48 , p. 543 - 59 Posted: 2008
Crossref
K A Van Peursem
Conversations with Internal Auditors-The Power of Ambiguity
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 5 , p. 489 - 512 Posted: 2005
The institute of internal auditors (IIA) (2001) Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing (SPPIA , volume 11 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
742
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,115
RANK
78,542
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies