Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incorporating Risk Considerations into Planning and Control Systems: The Influence of Risk Management Value Creation Objectives

Forthcoming in Philip Linsley and Margaret Woods (eds.), The Routledge Companion to Accounting and Risk, London: Routledge, 2016

37 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2016

Christopher D. Ittner

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Thomas Keusch

INSEAD

Date Written: April 5, 2016

Abstract

Using data on a broad international sample of listed, private, and non-profit entities, we explore the influence of risk management value creation objectives on the incorporation of risk considerations in planning and control systems. The combination of detailed survey responses and archival data allow us to provide evidence on the adoption of a wide variety of risk-focused planning and control practices, to examine how these practices vary with risk management objectives, and to shed light on the performance implications of risk-focused planning and control practices and risk management objectives. Our results highlight the important influence that risk management value creation objectives can have on the use and benefits from risk-focused planning and control practices. Organizations that primarily focus on minimizing risks within budget or reducing the total cost of risks tend to make less use of these practices, have higher stock price volatility, and achieve lower firm value than those that have taken greater steps to holistically consider both the upsides and downsides of risk.

Keywords: Enterprise risk management, ERM, Planning and control system design

JEL Classification: G31, G32, L1, L2, L3, M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ittner, Christopher D. and Keusch, Thomas, Incorporating Risk Considerations into Planning and Control Systems: The Influence of Risk Management Value Creation Objectives (April 5, 2016). Forthcoming in Philip Linsley and Margaret Woods (eds.), The Routledge Companion to Accounting and Risk, London: Routledge, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2759308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
On an ad-hoc basis or only in reaction to an event , volume 5
On a routine basis, though focus may still be reactive (40.5%)
Evidence/information cited in risk management reports at executive levels of the organisation is: Primarily qualitative (22 , volume 4
Primarily qualitative with inclusion of selected quantitative measures (52.8%); Primarily quantitative with supporting qualitative information (24.8%)
Load more
1 Citations
Hami Amiraslani , Carolyn Deller , Christopher D. Ittner , Thomas Keusch
Board Risk Oversight and Environmental and Social Performance
Journal of Accounting and Economics, (Forthcoming) · 59 Pages · Posted: 26 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 9 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 1,498
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
751
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,583
RANK
77,309
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies