Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Incidence, Valuation and Management of Tax-related Reputational Costs: Evidence from a Period of Protest

The Journal of the American Taxation Association, Accepted

55 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2016 Last revised: 20 Jun 2021

Dan S. Dhaliwal

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting (deceased)

Theodore H. Goodman

Purdue University - Department of Accounting

P.J. Hoffman

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Casey M. Schwab

University of North Texas

Date Written: May 17, 2017

Abstract

We examine the incidence, valuation and management of tax-related reputational costs during 2011, a year of extensive social protest that temporarily increased scrutiny of corporate tax avoidance. We report three main results. First, tax avoidance is positively associated with negative media sentiment during the protest period (i.e., 2011). Second, a hedge portfolio long (short) in low (high) tax avoidance firms generates positive abnormal returns during the protest period. Third, firms experiencing the largest reputational costs during the protest period report higher tax rates in subsequent years. Supplemental analyses indicate tax-related media coverage increased during the protest period, and that the results are unlikely driven by political costs or other time-invariant firm characteristics. Our findings suggest that tax-related reputational costs are not pervasive. Instead, these costs only occur during periods of unusually high scrutiny, which helps explain prior studies’ difficulties in providing large-sample evidence of tax-related reputational costs.

Keywords: tax avoidance, reputational costs, media attention

JEL Classification: H2, H25, H26, E62, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dhaliwal, Dan S. and Goodman, Theodore H. and Hoffman, P.J. and Schwab, Casey M., The Incidence, Valuation and Management of Tax-related Reputational Costs: Evidence from a Period of Protest (May 17, 2017). The Journal of the American Taxation Association, Accepted, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2760366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2760366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Justice
Corporate Taxpayers and Corporate Tax Dodgers 2008-10 Posted: 2011-05-11
C Collins
A Fair Tax System: Three Places to Start
This Changes Everything: Occupy Wall Street and the 99% Movement , p. 61 - 62 Posted: 2011
P Diamond , E Saez
Taxing Higher Earnings
The Occupy Handbook , p. 317 - 329 Posted: 2012
B Duff-Brown
Occupy movements nationwide celebrate Thanksgiving holiday at makeshift encampments Posted: 2011-11-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
598
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,702
RANK
103,625
3 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies