Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Potential Impact of Requiring a Stand-Alone Board-Level Risk Committee

50 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2016

Michael Iselin

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of the requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act that all large bank holding companies create a stand-alone, board-level risk committee. In addressing this issue I focus on banks that had not voluntarily created such a committee prior to the legislation, as these are the banks that are most affected by the new rule. I find that requiring large banks to maintain a risk committee is associated with increased capital ratios during the global financial crisis, but with decreased capital ratios during more stable economic conditions. The time varying nature of the results highlights the importance of estimating the effect of proposed policy changes over multiple states of the economy. This paper contributes to the literature by investigating the effects of a relatively understudied aspect of board structure, the presence of a risk committee, and by providing an identification strategy that can be used to investigate standard setting and regulatory changes before the changes are put in place.

Keywords: risk committee, board of directors, average treatment effect on the untreated

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M40

Suggested Citation:

Iselin, Michael, Estimating the Potential Impact of Requiring a Stand-Alone Board-Level Risk Committee (April 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2761556 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2761556
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
V Acharya , L Pedersen , T Philippon , M Richardson
Measuring Systemic Risk Posted: 2010
Crossref
V Acharya , M Richardson
Causes of the Financial Crisis
Critical Review: A Journal of Politics and Society , volume 21 , p. 195 - 210 Posted: 2009
R Adams
Asking Directors about their Dual Roles Posted: 2009
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,628
RANK
296,056
9 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies