Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Voluntary Risk Disclosure Levels: Evidence from Saudi Banks

Al-Maghzom, A., Hussainey, K. and Aly, D. (2016). Value relevance of voluntary risk disclosure levels: Evidence from Saudi banks. Journal of Accounting and Taxation, Volume 8, Number 1

25 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2016

Abdullah Al-Maghzom

University of Gloucestershire; University of Plymouth - Plymouth Business School

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Doaa A Aly

University of Gloucestershire

Date Written: April 15, 2016

Abstract

This study seeks to examine whether the levels of voluntary risk disclosure in Saudi listed banks are value-relevant or not. The sample of this investigation consists of all banks listed on the Saudi Stock Market Exchange (Tadawul). All data was collected from the annual reports of the sample banks from 2009 to 2013 using manual content analysis. Other variables were collected using DataStream and Bloomberg. Ordinary least squares regressions analysis was used. The findings of the multivariate analysis demonstrated that there is no association between the levels of voluntary risk disclosure and firm value as measured by the market to book value at the end of the year (MTBV). But, the results generate from the accounting based measure (ROA) show that there is a positively significant association between the levels of voluntary risk disclosure and firm value. This study contributes to the literature on general accounting disclosure and in particular advances and contributes to the literature on risk disclosure in developing economies. It also contributes to the understanding of the role of accounting information in relation to the market valuation of a firm. The empirical findings of this study have several implications for banks’ investors, regulatory bodies and any other interested group as they report the importance of corporate risk disclosure and its economic consequences. This can be used to increase the value relevance in the banking sector. This study also informs regulators about the current level of risk disclosure in all Saudi listed banks. To the best of the researcher’s knowledge, no prior research has been conducted on the relationship between firm value and levels of risk disclosure in general nor especially in emerging markets, such as Saudi Arabia, the focus of this study.

Keywords: Banks, Saudi Arabia, Risk Disclosure, Economic Consequences, Firm Value

JEL Classification: M4, M49

Suggested Citation:

Al-Maghzom, Abdullah and Hussainey, Khaled and Aly, Doaa A, Value Relevance of Voluntary Risk Disclosure Levels: Evidence from Saudi Banks (April 15, 2016). Al-Maghzom, A., Hussainey, K. and Aly, D. (2016). Value relevance of voluntary risk disclosure levels: Evidence from Saudi banks. Journal of Accounting and Taxation, Volume 8, Number 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2765325 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2765325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
Abed Al-Nasser Abdallah , Mostafa Kamal Hassan
The Effects of Corporation/Country Characteristics and the Level of Corporate Governance on Corporate Risk Disclosure: The Case of the Gulf Cooperative Council (GCC) Countries
Pages: 43 Posted: 5 May 2013 Last revised: 14 Jan 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Abdallah , M Hassan , P Mcclelland
Islamic Financial Institutions, Corporate Governance, and Corporate Risk Disclosure in Gulf Cooperation Council Countries
Journal of Multinational Financial Management Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Al-Akra , I Eddie , M Ali
The association between privatisation and voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Jordan. Accounting and Business Research , volume 40 , p. 1 - 44 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Al-Razeen , Y Karbhari
Interaction between compulsory and voluntary disclosure in Saudi Arabian corporate annual reports
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 351 - 60 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,795
RANK
287,617
3 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies