Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Incentives, Risk Aversion and Corporate Policy Decisions

60 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2016

Scott McKnight

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Helen Roberts

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Date Written: April 18, 2016

Abstract

We provide new evidence that equity incentives can have perverse effects on firm value. Conditioning the relationship between chief executive officer (CEO) incentives and the risk exposure generated by corporate policy decisions on how risk is expected to affect firm value, we find that delta encourages value-maximising investment and firm focus policy decisions, but may lead to sub-optimal financing decisions. When the goal of value-maximisation conflicts with the CEO’s propensity to avoid risk, the incentive effect of delta partially offsets risk aversion. We show that while CEO incentives affect corporate policy, the firm’s optimal policy also influences the compensation contract.

Keywords: Managerial Incentives, Risk Aversion, Delta-Risk Relationship, Corporate Policy Decisions

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G34, J33

Suggested Citation:

McKnight, Scott and Roberts, Helen, Managerial Incentives, Risk Aversion and Corporate Policy Decisions (April 18, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2766801 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2766801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
D May
Do managerial motives influence firm risk reduction strategies
Journal of Finance , volume 50 , p. 1291 - 1308
Crossref
R Merton
Theory of rational option pricing
The Bell Journal of Economics and Management Science , volume 4 , p. 141 - 183 Posted: 1973
Crossref
T Milbourn
CEO reputation and stock-based compensation
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , p. 233 - 262 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Mozes
An upper bound for the firm's cost of employee stock options
Financial Management , volume 24 , p. 66 - 77 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,407
RANK
596,846
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies