Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Gamification on Corporate Compliance Training: A Field Experiment of True Office Anti-Corruption Training Programs

25 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2016

Ryan J. Baxter

Boise State University, College of Business and Economics, Department of Accountancy

Kip Holderness

West Virginia University

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 18, 2016

Abstract

Companies rely on internal controls to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. One such control is anti-corruption employee training. Although corporate training is a key component of anti-fraud policies and procedures, it is often perceived as dull by employees. To motivate greater engagement, firms are experimenting with training that involves elements of digital games, known as gamification. We perform a field experiment with 158 employees of a large, multinational bank to examine the effectiveness of gamified anti-corruption training. We find that employees strongly prefer gamified training to traditional, non-gamified training and that gamified training modestly increases employees’ knowledge of the bank’s anti-corruption policies. Interestingly, we also find that employees with less work experience outperform those with greater work experience on the post-training knowledge assessment. Our results suggest that gamification is a valuable tool for improving anti-corruption training.

Suggested Citation:

Baxter, Ryan J. and Holderness, Darin Kip and Wood, David A., The Effects of Gamification on Corporate Compliance Training: A Field Experiment of True Office Anti-Corruption Training Programs (April 18, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2766683 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2766683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) Posted: 2014
Crossref
R J Baxter , D K Holderness , D A Wood
Applying Basic Gamification Techniques to IT Compliance Training: Evidence from the Lab and Field
Journal of Information Systems Posted: 2015
Crossref
D E Berlyne
Novelty, complexity, and hedonic value
Perception & Psychophysics , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 279 - 286 Posted: 1970
Crossref
G E Caiden , O P Dwivedi , J Jabbra
Where corruption lives , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
878
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,965
RANK
62,632
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies