Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Risk Incentives and the Riskiness of Securitization Transactions in the Financial Industry

International Journal of Banking, Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 20 Apr 2016 Last revised: 16 Nov 2016

Michele Fabrizi

University of Padua

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

Date Written: April 19, 2016

Abstract

The paper investigates the role of CEO risk incentives in increasing the riskiness of securitization transactions in the financial industry. Using a sample of US financial institutions, and a system model to account for the endogeneity problem between risk incentives and securitization, we document that: i) financial institutions whose CEOs had high risk incentives engaged in securitization transactions to a larger extent than did financial institutions guided by CEOs with low risk incentives, and ii) CEOs with high risk-related incentives securitized riskier loans than did CEOs with low incentives. Thus, our results suggest that CEO risk incentives induced banks to focus on securitizations and increased the riskiness of such transactions.

Keywords: Executive compensation, CEO incentives, securitization, financial crisis, banking industry, risk incentives, equity incentives, corporate governance, accounting, financial institution, securitization accounting, risk taking

JEL Classification: M41, M12, G21, G32, G01

Suggested Citation:

Fabrizi, Michele and Parbonetti, Antonio, CEO Risk Incentives and the Riskiness of Securitization Transactions in the Financial Industry (April 19, 2016). International Journal of Banking, Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2767075 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2767075
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
779
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies