Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividends, Leverage, and Family Ownership in the Emerging Indonesian Market

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 2016 Forthcoming

14 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2016

Evy Mulyani

School of Accounting, Economics and Finance Deakin University

Harminder Singh

Deakin University - School of Accounting, Economics and Finance

Sagarika Mishra

Deakin University

Date Written: March 25, 2016

Abstract

We examine the roles of dividends and leverage to mitigate agency problems within family firms in Indonesia. Using simultaneous equations, we find a significant negative association between family ownership and dividend payout and a two-way negative relation between dividend payout and leverage. Our analysis reveals that, compared to non-family firms, family firms tend to maintain a lower dividend pay-out and higher leverage. The presence of large non-family ownership appears to have an impact on determining levels of private benefit control. During the Asian and global financial crisis, family firms changed their dividend pay-out more than non-family firms did.

Keywords: dividend, leverage, family ownership

JEL Classification: G35, G32

Suggested Citation:

Mulyani, Evy and Singh, Harminder and Mishra, Sagarika, Dividends, Leverage, and Family Ownership in the Emerging Indonesian Market (March 25, 2016). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 2016 Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2768448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
E Mulyani
Int. Fin. Markets, Inst. and Money Posted: 2016
Crossref
E Mulyani
Int. Fin. Markets, Inst. and Money Posted: 2016
Crossref
E Mulyani
Int. Fin. Markets, Inst. and Money Posted: 2016
Crossref
A References Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control problems between managers and shareholders
J. Financ. Quant. Anal , volume 31 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,035
RANK
271,899
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies