Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Inside Debt and Corporate Tax Avoidance

FAccT Center Working Paper Nr. 22/2016

45 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2016

Anna Alexander

University of Padua

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Date Written: April 22, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the relation between executives’ inside debt holdings and corporate tax risk. As executives’ inside debt holdings are unsecured and unfunded, they should align executives’ interests with those of outside debtholders and incentivize executives to act more conservatively toward risk. Hence, inside debt should also reduce the risk of tax avoidance activities. Consistent with this prediction, we find that executive inside debt holdings are negatively related to tax risk. Further, this relation becomes stronger at higher levels of tax risk. We also find that the relation between insider debt and tax risk is stronger for firms that are not facing liquidity constraints and among well-governed firms. The latter result implies that institutional ownership and inside debt compensation are substitutes in reducing tax risk. Overall, our results suggest that part of the observed cross-sectional difference in tax avoidance can be explained by a reduction in tax risk that is related to executive inside debt holdings.

Keywords: Tax risk, executive compensation, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M41; M52; H26; G34

Suggested Citation:

Alexander, Anna and Jacob, Martin, Executive Inside Debt and Corporate Tax Avoidance (April 22, 2016). FAccT Center Working Paper Nr. 22/2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2768888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2768888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
C S Armstrong , J Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate Governance, Incentives, and Tax Avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The Incentives for Tax Planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P J Beck , P Lisowsky
Tax Uncertainty and Voluntary Real-Time Tax Audits Posted: 2013
Crossref
F Black , M Scholes
The Pricing of Options and Corporate Liabilities
Journal of Political Economy , volume 81 , p. 637 - 654 Posted: 1973
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Alessandro Gabrielli
Tax Avoidance and Capital Structure
, p. 89 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,171
RANK
186,309
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies