Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Financial Performance: The Mediating Role of Productivity

Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper No. 7/2016

Gabelli School of Business, Fordham University Research Paper No. 2768097

48 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2016 Last revised: 7 Sep 2022

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Nada Kobeissi

Long Island University

Liuling Liu

Bowling Green State University - College of Business Administration

Haizhi Wang

Illinois Institute of Technology - Stuart School of Business

Date Written: April 20, 2016

Abstract

This study treats firm productivity as an accumulation of productive intangibles and posits that stakeholder engagement associated with better corporate social performance helps develop such intangibles. We hypothesize that because shareholders factor improved productive efficiency into stock price, productivity mediates the relationship between corporate social and financial performance. Furthermore, we argue that key stakeholders’ social considerations are more valuable for firms with higher levels of discretionary cash and income stream uncertainty. Therefore, we hypothesize that those two contingencies moderate the mediated process of corporate social performance with financial performance. Our analysis, based on a comprehensive longitudinal dataset of U.S. manufacturing firms from 1992 to 2009, lends strong support for these hypotheses. In short, this paper uncovers a productivity-based, context-dependent mechanism underlying the relationship between corporate social performance and financial performance.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, corporate financial performance, total factor productivity, stakeholder management, discretionary cash, organizational risk

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Iftekhar and Kobeissi, Nada and Liu, Liuling and Wang, Haizhi, Corporate Social Responsibility and Firm Financial Performance: The Mediating Role of Productivity (April 20, 2016). Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper No. 7/2016, Gabelli School of Business, Fordham University Research Paper No. 2768097, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2768097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
135 References
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions Posted: 1991
K L Ailawadi , S A Neslin , Y J Luan , G A Taylor
Does Retailer CSR Enhance Behavioral Loyalty? A Case for Benefit Segmentation
International Journal of Research in Marketing , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 156 - 167 Posted: 2014
J Antonakis , S Bendahan , P Jacquart , R Lalive
Causality and Endogeneity: Problems and Solutions. The Oxford Handbook of Leadership and Organizations Posted: 2014
M Bagnoli , S G Watts
Selling to Socially Responsible Consumers: Competition and The Private Provision of Public Goods
Journal of Economics & Management Strategy , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 419 - 445 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
573
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,872
RANK
109,481
6 Citations
135 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bank of Finland Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies