Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating Global Shipping Corporations’ Accountability for Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Seas

Marine Policy, 2016, DOI: 10.1016/j.marpol.2016.04.018

25 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2016

Mia Rahim

School of Law, University of New England

Md Tarikul Islam

University of Greenwich

Sanjaya Kuruppu

University of South Australia - School of Commerce

Date Written: April 21, 2016

Abstract

Up until the recent oil and commodity price crash in 2015, there has been exponential growth in global shipping and trade, and this increase means that prompt action is required to reduce vessel-sourced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Future projections suggest that maritime CO2 emissions will increase substantially by between 50% to 250%. However, there is currently no international instrument holding global shipping corporations accountable for their vessels’ performance in emissions reduction. This article critically assesses the current accountability practices and regulations in place for these corporations. It suggests that stakeholders in this industry need to further explore the market based mechanisms (MBMs) that can encourage and even demand that these corporations systematically disclose their vessels’ emissions reduction performance in an accurate and timely manner. Developing such mechanisms is vital to assist in the reduction of GHG emissions since a comprehensive international instrument is unlikely to be implemented soon.

Keywords: Shipping corporations, greenhouse gas emissions, accountability, new governance, international regulations

Suggested Citation:

Rahim, Mia and Islam, Md Tarikul and Kuruppu, Sanjaya, Regulating Global Shipping Corporations’ Accountability for Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Seas (April 21, 2016). Marine Policy, 2016, DOI: 10.1016/j.marpol.2016.04.018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2768487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
137 References
Decision 1/CP.16 of the Conference of Parties on its sixteenth session
I L M
733 (entered into force 13 May 1995) and its Protocol on Preparedness, Response and Co-operation to Pollution Incidents by Hazardous and Noxious Substances
Some of these instruments are as follows: International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness , volume 330 Posted: 1953-05
I L M
International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Bunker Oil Spills
International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Fouling Systems on Vessels Posted: 1406-03-23
International Convention for the Control and Management of Ship's Ballast Water and Sediments Posted: 2004-02-13
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
420,501
1 Citations
137 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies