Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Enterprise Characteristics and Environmental Disclosures in Annual Reports of Mining Companies of Indonesia

International Journal of Management, Accounting & Economics Vol.2, No.1: 41-56, March 2016

16 Pages Posted: 1 May 2016

Amir Indrabudiman

Universitas Budi Luhur; Universitas Padjadjaran, Students

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This study examines the effect of the characteristics of the company (which includes the company's profitability, age, earnings per share, size, public ownership, leverage, size of the board) on social and environmental disclosure in the annual report. Multiple linear regression was used for analysis of data on 40 mining companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange in 2014. This study showed that the characteristics of the company has a positive and significant impact on the disclosure of social and environmental data (which consists of the theme of economic, environmental, labor, rights human rights, society, product liability, and additional mining indicators). Partial test results showed that the only variable Earnings Per Share (EPS), which has a positive and significant impact on the company's social and environmental outcomes disclosure. Test between sub-variables/dimensions indicate that EPS significantly influence the disclosure of economic performance, environmental, product liability and additional indicators. Meanwhile, debt had a significant effect on product disclosure, the public and additional indicators. Then, age was significant towards the disclosure of additional indicators of mining. In addition to significantly affect the size of the Board and the public disclosure of additional indicators of mining. Then the size of the company's significant influence on product disclosure.

Keywords: Profitability, Age, Earnings Per Share, Size, Public Ownership, Leverage, Board Size, Social and Environmental Disclosure, Indonesia

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Indrabudiman, Amir, Social Enterprise Characteristics and Environmental Disclosures in Annual Reports of Mining Companies of Indonesia (2015). International Journal of Management, Accounting & Economics Vol.2, No.1: 41-56, March 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2769493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Ali Maskur Musa
Kontrol Kerusakan Lingkungan Lemah
Artikel Lingkungan Global. Koran Kompas , volume 23 Posted: 2014
Effendi Arief
Posted: 2012
Analisis Tentang Pentingnya Tanggung Jawab dan Akuntansi Sosial Perusahaan (Corporate Responsibility and Social Accounting): Studi Empiris di Kota Medan
SNA VI, Surabaya , p. 168 - 190 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Ahmed Belkaoui
Accounting Theory Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,612
RANK
337,747
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies