Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No Smoke and No Fire: The Rise of Internal Controls Absent Anti-Bribery Violations in FCPA Enforcement

38 Cardozo Law Review 1727

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-37

39 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2016 Last revised: 15 Jul 2017

Karen E. Woody

Washington and Lee University - School of Law

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits bribery of foreign public officials in order to obtain or retain business. It is, for all intents and purposes, an anti-bribery statute. In order to detect bribery, the FCPA contains accounting provisions related to bookkeeping and internal controls. The books and records provision requires issuers to make and maintain accurate books, records and accounts; likewise, the internal controls provision requires that issuers devise and maintain reasonable internal accounting controls aimed at preventing and detecting FCPA violations. If one considers the analogy that bribery is the “fire” in FCPA enforcement actions, and books and records violations are the “smoke,” internal controls are the “smoke detectors.”

The government is increasingly punishing, or threatening to punish, companies for the potential ineffectiveness of these “smoke detectors.” Internal controls violations arguably are not substantive violations, but instead are violations arising out of the potential for other violations. The recent increase in the number of enforcement actions alleging violations of the internal controls provision in the absence of any correlating anti-bribery provision violations suggests that enforcement of the Act has (d)evolved to a place well beyond its stated purpose. Additionally problematic is that the internal controls required by the FCPA are not a fixed standard but instead a fairly ambiguous set of recommendations and guidelines that depend on the characteristics of each company and industry. The result of this is overcriminalization and overenforcement of the statute by the government, and overcompliance by the private sector. This Article addresses the alarming shift in the interpretation of the breadth of the statute by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the Department of Justice ("DOJ"), and discusses the vast theoretical ramifications of this overcriminalization and overenforcement.

Keywords: FCPA, internal controls, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, SEC

Suggested Citation:

Woody, Karen E., No Smoke and No Fire: The Rise of Internal Controls Absent Anti-Bribery Violations in FCPA Enforcement (February 1, 2016). 38 Cardozo Law Review 1727, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2770682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Id
The administrative proceeding was brought against Chiquita Brands International. Id. Two major cases in 2001 included KPMG Siddharta Siddharta & Harsono, and Baker Hughes Incorporated. Id. The SEC brought follow-on actions against individuals in both of these matters
Id
& Exch. Comm'n, SEC Names New Specialized Unit Chiefs and Head of New Office of Market Intelligence Posted: 2010-01-13
Crossref
Sec See , Enforcement
Actions: FCPA Cases, supra note 16
); see also Complaint, SEC v
SEC Files Settled Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Charges Against Siemens AG, Accounting & Auditing Enforcement Act Release No. 2911, 94 SEC Docket 2869 Posted: 2008-12-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
RANK
596,846
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies