Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bringing Responsible Ownership to the Financial Market of Hong Kong: How Effective Could It Be?

Journal of Corporate Law Studies, Vol. 16, No. 2, 437-469, 2016

41 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2016 Last revised: 2 Nov 2017

Kong Shan Ho

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - School of Law; Kingston University, Department of Law; Manchester Metropolitan University - School of Law

Date Written: April 27, 2016

Abstract

In March 2015, the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) of Hong Kong launched a consultation to examine whether the financial market of Hong Kong should implement the Principles of Responsible Ownership, based on the Stewardship Code which was first introduced into the United Kingdom’s (UK) financial market in 2010. One year later, in March 2016, the SFC announced in its consultation conclusions that it would adopt the Principles subject to some amendments. This paper examines as to whether the implementation of such Principles would be effective in encouraging shareholder activism and engagement in the corporate governance of Hong Kong. Contrary to the SFC’s conclusions, it is argued here that due to the nature and characteristics of Hong Kong’s financial market, the Principles are unlikely to foster greater shareholder involvement. The article will suggest alternative legal and institutional mechanisms that can better enhance investor engagement.

Keywords: Corporate governance; Investor engagement; Stewardship obligation; United Kingdom; Hong Kong

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Ho, Kong Shan, Bringing Responsible Ownership to the Financial Market of Hong Kong: How Effective Could It Be? (April 27, 2016). Journal of Corporate Law Studies, Vol. 16, No. 2, 437-469, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2771011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Above n , volume 11
Ibid
Crossref
Tom Mitchell
Lights dimmed on Carlyle's Christmas tree
Financial Times Posted: 2008-03-13
Ibid
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,334
RANK
448,944
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies