Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Codes of Ethics, National Culture, and Earnings Discretion: International Evidence

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 14 May 2016 Last revised: 16 May 2016

Chen Chu

University of Texas at El Paso

Giorgio Gotti

University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP)

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Michael C. Wolfe

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - Spears School of Business

Date Written: April 28, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the role of codes of ethics in reducing the extent to which managers act opportunistically in reporting earnings. Corporate codes of ethics, by clarifying the boundaries of ethical corporate behaviors and making relevant social norms more salient, have the potential to deter managers from engaging in opportunistic financial reporting practices. In a sample of international companies, we find that the quality of corporate codes of ethics is associated with higher earnings quality, i.e., lower discretionary accruals. Our results are confirmed for a subsample of firms more likely to be engaging in opportunistic reporting behavior, i.e., firms that just meet or beat analysts’ forecasts. Further, codes of ethics play a greater role in reducing earnings management for firms in countries with weaker investor protection mechanisms. Our results suggest that corporate codes of ethics can be a viable alternative to country-level investor protection mechanisms in curbing aggressive reporting behaviors.

Keywords: Corporate ethics policy, Code of ethics, Business ethics, Earnings discretion, Accruals

JEL Classification: G300, L210, M140, M410

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Chen and Gotti, Giorgio and Kang, Tony and Wolfe, Michael, Corporate Codes of Ethics, National Culture, and Earnings Discretion: International Evidence (April 28, 2016). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2772149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S Baiman
Agency research in managerial accounting
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 1 , p. 154 - 213 Posted: 1982
Crossref
R Ball
Market and political/regulatory perspectives on the recent accounting scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B K Behn , G Gotti , D Herrmann , T Kang
Classification shifting in an international setting: Investor protection and financial analysts monitoring
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 50 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Bicchieri
The grammar of society: The nature and dynamics of social norms Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,859
RANK
161,184
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies