Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentives, Ethics and Bonus Structures

Posted: 1 May 2016

Jamie Daigle

University of Houston - Downtown

Date Written: April 2, 2016

Abstract

A variety of analogical literature is reviewed to ascertain oscillations in the collected works to determine a symphonic solution that is emancipatory of all incentives to conduct unethical manipulations of financial disclosures. The etymological question is how to structure an incentive plan for accountants to deter unethical decisions, whilst maintaining the EBITA/Revenue matrices that are required of accountants. As an accounting manager at a Houston firm, this issue is of personal interest and critical importance. This study examines bonus structures and concludes that incentive plans have no place in accountant, CFO and Director compensation, if the end goal is to ensure compliance with accounting standards. The antidote to unethical accounting practices is to pay key-players at a competitive rate without the incessant need for extrinsic motivators. This study fills in the empirical gap of literature that eradicates employee’s extrinsic monetary motivators and determines that the answer to this ethical dilemma is to elect employees that are intrinsically motivated, as this is the pinnacle of excellence.

Keywords: bonus structures, incentives, accounting, unethical accounting

JEL Classification: M20, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Daigle, Jamie, Incentives, Ethics and Bonus Structures (April 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2772227
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,823
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies