Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Time Pressure on Belief Revision in Accounting: A Review of Relevant Literature in a Pressure-Arousal-Effort-Performance Framework

Behavioral Research in Accounting, No. 2, 2017

Posted: 20 May 2016 Last revised: 6 Mar 2017

Christian P.R. Pietsch

Erasmus University Rotterdam

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: April 1, 2016

Abstract

This study advances several propositions about the effects of time pressure on individuals’ belief revisions within a pressure-arousal-effort-performance framework. There is a significant body of research that documents the importance of both time pressure and order effects in an accounting environment. However, prior research has not investigated how the order of information affects individuals’ belief revision processes under varying levels of time pressure, even though the inclusion of a time pressure variable has been noted as relevant in belief revision research, both in general (Hogarth and Einhorn 1992) and in accounting (Kahle, Pinsker, and Pennington 2005; Trotman and Wright 2000). In this review, we extend prior belief revision research in accounting by describing how time pressure interacts with personal and task variables, and the subprocesses described in the belief-adjustment model (Hogarth and Einhorn 1992). Propositions are advanced on the effects of time pressure on individuals’ belief revisions. A better understanding of such interactive effects helps to explain the mixed results identified in prior studies.

Keywords: order effects, time pressure, belief revision

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M420

Suggested Citation:

Pietsch, Christian P.R. and Messier Jr, William F., The Effects of Time Pressure on Belief Revision in Accounting: A Review of Relevant Literature in a Pressure-Arousal-Effort-Performance Framework (April 1, 2016). Behavioral Research in Accounting, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2773058 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2773058
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies