Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Propensity to Split and CEO Compensation

Posted: 4 May 2016

Erik Devos

University of Texas at El Paso - College of Business Administration - Department of Economics and Finance

William B. Elliott

John Carroll University

Richard S. Warr

North Carolina State University

Date Written: May 4, 2016

Abstract

We analyze the relation between the delta and vega of a CEO's compensation and the propensity of the firm to engage in a split. Controlling for other well-known factors, we find that CEOs with compensation that has higher levels of delta are more likely to split their shares. Furthermore, the choice of split factor is inversely related to delta and directly related to vega, a result driven by the volatility effect of stock splits. Our results are economically significant: for the average firm in our sample, a stock split results in a CEO wealth gain of $4.9 million.

Keywords: Stock Splits, Executive Compensation, Managerial Incentives

JEL Classification: G14, G32, J33

Suggested Citation:

Devos, Erik and Elliott, William B. and Warr, Richard S., The Propensity to Split and CEO Compensation (May 4, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2774883
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,096
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies