Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Allocation of Decision Rights between the Parent Company and Its Subsidiaries

Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Forthcoming

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-52

42 Pages Posted: 4 May 2016

Yuanyuan Liu

Peking University - Department of Accounting; Xiamen University - School of Management

Ting Luo

Tsinghua University

Heng Yue

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 3, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the determinants of allocation of decision rights between the parent company and its subsidiaries, and the economic consequence of suboptimal power structure. Based on China’s unique double-disclosure for the parent company and the whole group, we construct a decentralization index to measure how decision rights are allocated within the group companies. We find a more decentralized (centralized) power structure for the groups with more uncertain (certain) external environment and with poorer (better) internal information quality. We also show that the groups with suboptimal power structure have weaker future performance.

Keywords: Decentralization, Power Structure, External Environmental Uncertainty, Internal Information Quality, Performance

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yuanyuan and Luo, Ting and Yue, Heng, Allocation of Decision Rights between the Parent Company and Its Subsidiaries (May 3, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Forthcoming, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2016-52, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2774239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,778
RANK
413,842
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies