Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncertainty and Firm Dividend Policy: A Natural Experiment

Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper No. 11/2016

58 Pages Posted: 20 May 2016 Last revised: 11 Nov 2022

Bonnie Buchanan

University of Surrey

Cathy Cao

Seattle University

Eva Liljeblom

Swedish School of Economics and Business Administration

Susan Weihrich

Seattle University - Albers School of Business and Economics

Date Written: May 2, 2016

Abstract

We examine how firms respond to uncertainty around U.S. tax policy changes, namely the individual level tax rate increases set to take effect on January 1, 2011 and January 1, 2013. We provide evidence that firms time the uncertainty in the tax environment and revise their dividend policy to an expected tax increase. We find that firms are likely to initiate their dividends or intensively increase their existing dividend amount one year before the expected tax increase. In addition, in 2012 when there is much less uncertainty on dividend tax changes than in 2010, firms are less likely to initiate a regular dividend but are more likely to initiate special dividends. The results suggest that firms facing less tax uncertainty are less likely to make long-term commitments on regular dividend payments but are more likely to take advantage of the last-minute low tax benefits by issuing special dividends. Furthermore, the response to the possible elimination of a tax cut was strongest in firms with high levels of tax-affected ownership, supporting the argument that when facing policy uncertainty, firms behave to prepare for the worst scenarios from the viewpoint of the shareholders, which in this case is a tax increase.

Keywords: dividend taxes, uncertainty, payout policy, special dividends

JEL Classification: G35, G32, G38, H32

Suggested Citation:

Buchanan, Bonnie and Cao, Cathy and Liljeblom, Eva and Weihrich, Susan, Uncertainty and Firm Dividend Policy: A Natural Experiment (May 2, 2016). Bank of Finland Research Discussion Paper No. 11/2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2774127
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
F Allen , A E Bernardo , I Welch
A Theory of Dividends Based on Tax Clienteles
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
A J Auerbach , K A Hassett
The 2003 dividend tax cuts and the value of the firm: An event study
, volume 11 Posted: 2005
L S Bagwell
Share repurchase and takeover deterrence
The RAND Journal of Economics , p. 72 - 88 Posted: 1991
J L Blouin , J S Ready , D A Shackelford
Do dividends increase immediately after the 2003 reduction in tax rates? NBER Working Paper , volume 10 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,282
RANK
401,016
11 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bank of Finland Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies