Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Politicians in the Boardroom: Is It a Convenient Burden?

50 Pages Posted: 5 May 2016 Last revised: 12 Apr 2017

Bartolomé Pascual-Fuster

University of the Balearic Islands

Rafel Crespí-Cladera

Universitat Illes Balears (UIB), Dep. Economia i Empresa

Date Written: April 3, 2017

Abstract

The paper analyzes the governance of the corporation when politicians hold board positions. Specifically, we study whether former politicians have different probabilities of holding relevant positions on boards of directors and delegated committees compared to other directors. Our results provide strong evidence against a lower probability and weak evidence of higher involvement. Our results suggest that when deciding on the positions held by their directors, firms estimate the quality of former politicians as corporate directors, in terms of monitoring and advising, to be similar to that of other directors. This quality is also corroborated, especially when politicians serve as independent directors, by studying whether their presence affects board performance in terms of CEO turnover control, executive director compensation, audit qualifications, and earnings management. Only when politicians serve as proprietary directors, representing large shareholders, we find some evidence of board performance deterioration, weak evidence when they serve as executive directors.

Keywords: Board committees, board of directors, corporate director quality, corporate governance, former politicians, political connections.

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G38, H89

Suggested Citation:

Pascual-Fuster, Bartolomé and Crespi-Cladera, Rafel, Politicians in the Boardroom: Is It a Convenient Burden? (April 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2775329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2775329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: The impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Aggarwal , F Meschke , Wang , T
Corporate political donations: investment or agency?
Business and Politics , volume 14 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Do some outside directors play a political role
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Anderson , S Mansi , D Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Mohamed Khalil , Sandy Harianto , Yilmaz Guney
Do Political Connections Reduce Earnings Management?
Khalil, M., Harianto, S., and Guney, Y. (2022). Do Political Connections Reduce Earnings Management? Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, forthcoming. · 55 Pages · Posted: 20 Jan 2022 · Downloads: 364
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,221
RANK
514,660
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies