Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opinion-Shopping: Firm versus Partner-Level Evidence

63 Pages Posted: 6 May 2016 Last revised: 1 Mar 2021

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Belen Gill-de-Albornoz

Jaume I University - Department of Finance and Accounting

Elena de las Heras

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Simona Rusanescu

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business, Department of Accounting and Auditing

Date Written: February 26, 2021

Abstract

Employing Lennox’s (2000) methodology on a uniquely long time series of Spanish companies’ data, we find evidence of successful audit opinion-shopping through the firm switching decision. However, in contrast to Chen et al. (2016) in the Chinese setting, we find no evidence of successful opinion-shopping at the partner level. This supports the thesis that the audit market characteristics that are key to promote or deter opinion shopping might differ at the firm and partner level within a country, with consequences for audit quality. In addition, we provide evidence on the strategies that companies use to secure more favourable opinions. The results suggest that companies prefer to opinion shop at the partner level, which is consistent with the argument that the costs and benefits associated with opinion-shopping are different at these two levels, and lead to different outcomes.

Keywords: audit opinion-shopping; audit firm switches; audit partner switches; modified audit opinion

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Gill de Albornoz Noguer, Belen and de las Heras, Elena and Rusanescu, Simona, Opinion-Shopping: Firm versus Partner-Level Evidence (February 26, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2776609 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2776609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
We use both signed and the absolute value of abnormal accruals because both measures have been used in the literature as proxies for earnings management
References American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 1978. The commission on auditors' responsibilities: Report, conclusions and recommendations
Aicpa
Statement of position regarding mandatory rotation of audit firms of publicly held companies Posted: 1992
E M Bamber , L S Bamber
Discussion of: Mandatory audit-partner rotation, audit quality and market perception: Evidence from Taiwan
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 393 - 492 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,544
RANK
152,736
1 Citations
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies