Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Has the International Harmonization of Financial Reporting Standards Affected Merger Premiums within the European Union?

International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 31, 2014

Posted: 15 May 2016

Konstantinos Bozos

Leeds University Business School

Yasanji Ratnaike

Independent

Malek Alsharairi

German Jordanian University (GJU)

Date Written: May 10, 2016

Abstract

We investigate the impact of IFRS adoption on merger premiums. Using a comprehensive database of M&A deals within the EU during 2000–2011 we examine the role of overall IFRS adoption, the differences between voluntary and mandatory adopters and the role of the target country's pre-IFRS accounting infrastructure and framework (absence of IFRS and IAS).We find that the introduction of the mandate is generally associated with lower merger premiums paid to targets. This decline is more pronounced in deals where the targets are mandatory adopters.

We also find that the further away the target's country standards are from IFRS, the stronger the effect of IFRS adoption is on merger premiums. The results are robust to an exhaustive number of control variables and alternative model specifications, as well as across different subsamples.

Keywords: Merger premiums, IFRS, Mandatory adoption, Absence of IFRS

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Bozos, Konstantinos and Ratnaike, Yasanji and Alsharairi, Malek Ahmad, How Has the International Harmonization of Financial Reporting Standards Affected Merger Premiums within the European Union? (May 10, 2016). International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 31, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777926
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,191
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies