Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Pre-Merger Earnings Management on Non-Cash Acquisition Premia: Evidence from the European Market for Corporate Control

Alsharairi, M., Black, E.L. and Hofer, C. (2015) “The Impact of Pre-merger Earnings Management on Non-cash Acquisition Premia: Evidence from the European Market for Corporate Control.” Corporate Ownership and Control. 12(4): pp. 587-602

Posted: 15 May 2016

Malek Alsharairi

German Jordanian University (GJU)

Emma Black

University of Newcastle - Business School

Christoph Hofer

Independent

Date Written: May 10, 2016

Abstract

Using 1320 European mergers and acquisitions (M&As) completed between 2003 and 2012, this paper investigates patterns of earnings management and the implications for non-cash acquisition premia considering both the form of payment and the target firm’s listing status. The empirical evidence documented in this study suggests that management teams engage in pre-merger upward earnings management and that it is more evident for private rather than for publicly listed targets in order to compensate for the higher information asymmetry. This earnings management procedure leads to higher takeover premia even after controlling for variables such as the acquirer’s internal investment opportunities, profitability or available free cash flow.

Keywords: Mergers, Acquisitions, Earnings Management, Acquisition premium, M&A, Accruals, Corporate Control, Pre-merger, Europe

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Alsharairi, Malek Ahmad and Black, Emma and Hofer, Christoph, The Impact of Pre-Merger Earnings Management on Non-Cash Acquisition Premia: Evidence from the European Market for Corporate Control (May 10, 2016). Alsharairi, M., Black, E.L. and Hofer, C. (2015) “The Impact of Pre-merger Earnings Management on Non-cash Acquisition Premia: Evidence from the European Market for Corporate Control.” Corporate Ownership and Control. 12(4): pp. 587-602, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777920
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies