Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Management Disclosure in Lithuanian Commercial Banks Financial Statements

8 Pages Posted: 13 May 2016

Dalia Kaupelyte

Vytautas Magnus University

Mantas Seilius

Vytautas Magnus University

Rūta Zinkevičiūtė

Vytautas Magnus University

Date Written: November 21, 2014

Abstract

Financial institutions have to follow International regulatory requirements and national regulations for risk management disclosure. International regulations are developed by Basel Committee of Banking Supervision (known as Basel II and Basel III) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS 7) introduced by International Accounting Standards Board. National requirements in Lithuanian are developed by Lithuanian central bank. Financial institutions, banks, are expected to provide timely and transparent information about risk exposures, correspondence to minimum regulatory requirements, risk computation methods etc. Still there are some questions raised how these de facto regulations are implemented in practice.

The goal of empirical research was to investigate the extent of risk management disclosure in Lithuanian commercial banks financial statements. Data sample constituted of 7 commercial banks that are legally registered in Lithuania: AB “Swedbank”, AB “SEB”, AB “DNB”, AB “Citadele”, AB “Medicinos Bankas”, AB “Šiaulių bankas”, AB “Finasta”. The period of 2009 – 2013 was analysed. The content analysis as analytical tool was employed. Research criteria were divided into 5 major groups: general policy, capital adequacy, credit risk, market risk, and operational risk. In total 34 criterions were developed. Coding of text was performed by counting words for each criterion.

Our evidence supports the conjecture that Lithuanian commercial banks provide more and more risk reporting. Also, we find that the extent of risk management disclosure is greater with the bigger size of reporting bank. Meanwhile, the extent for different risk management disclosure varies significantly: credit risk management is most reported risk. Further investigations on risk management disclosure in commercial banks should be focused on other reports first, such as annual reports or additional reports, which are provided by banks. Second, the sample of research is limited and in order to obtain more accurate results it is necessary to expand it. Moreover, authors did not examine liquidity risk, which could be relevant to the results, especially when Basel III accord is in the implementation stage. Third, counting unit can be changed from words to sentences, because sometimes separate words are meaningless and finally, future researches could be focused not only on extent of disclosed information, but also concentrate on the quality of provided information.

Keywords: risk, risk management, disclosure, national regulatory requirements, Basel II, IFRS

JEL Classification: G21, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kaupelyte, Dalia and Seilius, Mantas and Zinkevičiūtė, Rūta, Risk Management Disclosure in Lithuanian Commercial Banks Financial Statements (November 21, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777159 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2777159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
S Abraham , P Cox
Analysing the determinants of narrative risk information in UK FTSE 100 annual reports
The British Accounting Review Posted: 2007
Crossref
A ; Amran , Rosli , A M Bin , H Hassan
Risk reporting: An exploratory study on risk management disclosure in Malaysian annual reports
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 57 Posted: 2009
Basel , On , Supervision
International convergence of capital measurement and capital standards: a revised framework comprehensive version <http , volume 13 Posted: 2006-03
Act for information disclosure to public Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,625
RANK
464,511
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies