Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Excessive Risk Taking and Firm Value

49 Pages Posted: 10 May 2016

Maretno A. Harjoto

Pepperdine University - Pepperdine Graziadio Business School (PGBS)

Indrarini Laksmana

Kent State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 2, 2015

Abstract

We hypothesize that CSR serves as a control mechanism to curb excessive risk taking and to reduce excessive risk avoidance. Firms with CSR focus must balance the interests of multiple stakeholders, and therefore, must allocate resources to satisfy both investing and noninvesting stakeholders’ interests. Using five measures of corporate risk taking and a sample of 1,718 U.S. firms during 1998 to 2011, we find that stronger CSR performance is associated with lower level of risk taking activities for firms with risk taking measures above the industry median. We also find some evidence that CSR performance increases risk taking for firms with risk taking measures below the industry median. We examine the mechanism through which CSR has an impact on firm value and find a positive indirect impact of CSR on firm value through its impact on risk taking. CSR performance is positively associated with firm value because CSR reduces excessive risk taking and risk avoidance.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Risk Taking, Firm Value, Stakeholders

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34, G38 G39

Suggested Citation:

Harjoto, Maretno Agus and Laksmana, Indrarini, The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Excessive Risk Taking and Firm Value (September 2, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777215 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2777215
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
R E Freeman
Strategic management: A stakeholder approach , volume 46 Posted: 1984
J Frooman
Stakeholder influence strategies
Academy of Management Review , volume 24 , p. 191 - 205 Posted: 1999
Crossref
P A Gompers , J L Ishii , A Metrick
Corporate governance and equity prices
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 155 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Goss
Corporate social performance and idiosyncratic risk: a variance decomposition analysis
Eastern Finance Association Annual Meeting (Eastern Finance Association) Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
429
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,113
RANK
155,551
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies