Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bidder Earnings Management, Cynical Targets and Acquisition Premia

Alsharairi, M., Gleason, K.C. and Kannan, Y. (2014) “Bidder Earnings Management, Cynical Targets and Acquisition Premia.” Quarterly Journal of Finance and Accounting, 52(1-2): pp. 1-40

41 Pages Posted: 12 May 2016 Last revised: 13 May 2016

Malek Alsharairi

German Jordanian University (GJU)

Kimberly C. Gleason

American University of Sharjah

Yezen H. Kannan

Zayed University; Duquesne University

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Mergers and acquisitions are the result of negotiations between bidder and target managers and shareholders where both sides have incentives to manipulate the value of shares and assets. While a naive target investor may perceive higher share value for a bidder who engages in income increasing earnings management, an informed target would recognize that the impact of such management is transient. In this paper, we find that non-cash acquirers that adopt income-increasing pre-merger earnings management pay higher acquisition premia in completing their M&A deals. However, there is no significant relationship between earnings management and acquisition premia in cash bids, and evidence suggests that there is no significant incremental impact of bidder earnings management on premia for stock transactions versus cash transactions. Our results support the “cynical investor hypothesis,” which posits that target management and its financial advisors are suspicious of bidders with low earnings quality and are able to detect and thwart bidder earnings management schemes designed to obtain a lower acquisition price in stock transactions. The results are counter to the naive investor hypothesis.

Keywords: M&A, Acquisition Premium, Premia, Cost of Capital, Earnings Management, valuation, stock-swap, cynical investors, bids

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Alsharairi, Malek Ahmad and Gleason, Kimberly C. and Kannan, Yezen H., Bidder Earnings Management, Cynical Targets and Acquisition Premia (2014). Alsharairi, M., Gleason, K.C. and Kannan, Y. (2014) “Bidder Earnings Management, Cynical Targets and Acquisition Premia.” Quarterly Journal of Finance and Accounting, 52(1-2): pp. 1-40, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
G A Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
M Alsharairi , A Salama
Does High Leverage Impact Earnings Management?: Evidence from Non-cash Mergers and Acquisitions
Journal of Financial and Economic Practice , volume 12 , p. 17 - 33 Posted: 2012
C L Anilowski , A J Macias , J M Sanchez
Target Firm Earnings Management and the Method of Sale: Evidence from Auctions and Negotiations Posted: 2009
A Antoniou , P Arbour
How Much Is Too Much: Are Merger Premiums Too High?
European Financial Management , volume 14 , p. 268 - 287 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,354
RANK
735,901
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies