Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Event-Specific Earnings Management: Additional Evidence from US M&A Pre-and Post-Sox

Posted: 15 May 2016

Malek Alsharairi

German Jordanian University (GJU)

Robert Dixon

Durham Business School

Radhi Al-Hamadeen

Princess Sumaya University for Technology

Date Written: May 10, 2016

Abstract

We re-examine the motivation to manage earnings in US M&As, by investigating whether the enactment of SOX has affected pre-merger earnings management. Using a sample of over 700 completed M&As of US public firms during 1999-2008. Using quarterly reports, we track-down earnings management during the four quarters preceding the deal and consequently draw inferences about the implications of SOX on interim reporting practices. We find evidence of earnings management by non-cash acquirers, especially during the two to three quarters prior to the announcement date; this practice is more pronounced in the post-SOX period, suggesting that SOX simply lead to an earlier exercise of pre-merger earnings management. More interestingly, we reveal significant upward earnings management by targets in the last quarter prior to the deal, but only during the post-SOX era.

Keywords: Sarbanes Oxley, M&As, Earnings Management, Abnormal Accruals, Method of Payment, Quarterly Reports.

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G34

Suggested Citation:

Alsharairi, Malek Ahmad and Dixon, Robert and Al-Hamadeen, Radhi, Event-Specific Earnings Management: Additional Evidence from US M&A Pre-and Post-Sox (May 10, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777927
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,034
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies