Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Disclosure

Berkeley Business Law Journal, Vol. 13, No. 1, p. 185, 2016

34 Pages Posted: 11 May 2016 Last revised: 27 May 2016

Barnali Choudhury

University College London - Faculty of Laws; York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Date Written: May 10, 2016

Abstract

Globally, there is a growing interest in using disclosure rules in corporate and securities law to achieve social policy goals. The blending of corporate law with social issues is a transformation of disclosure obligations, which have traditionally focused on reducing information asymmetries and instilling confidence in the market. At the same time, the amalgamation of disclosure requirements with social goals signals a convergence of private and public goals. Private corporations are now being asked to take on a role in promoting social policies — a role traditionally allocated to governments.

Against this background, this article examines the utility of disclosure rules to promote social policies. The article finds that the role for public issues in the private area of corporate and securities law is limited, but concludes — from a comparative perspective — that disclosure rules which are narrow in scope and boast a high degree of specificity can be effective supplementary devices for curing corporate ills.

Keywords: Comparative Corporate Law, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Accountability, Disclosure, Human Rights, Non-Financial Disclosure

JEL Classification: K2, K22, M14

Suggested Citation:

Choudhury, Barnali, Social Disclosure (May 10, 2016). Berkeley Business Law Journal, Vol. 13, No. 1, p. 185, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2778132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
For an overview of UK government initiatives to increase the number of women on boards, see Barnali Choudhury, New Rationales for Women on Boards
34 OXFORD J. LEGAL STUD , volume 511 Posted: 2014
Companies (Disclosure of Particulars in the Report of Board of Directors) Rules, 1988 (India
Crossref
Daniel M Gallagher , Comm&apos;r , Sec
Statement at SEC Open Meeting: Proposed Rule to Implement Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act -the
Conflict Minerals" Provision Posted: 2012-08-22
The Gaëtane Schaeken Willemaers , Eu Issuer-Disclosure , Stock Exch
OBJECTIVES AND PROPOSALS FOR REFORM , volume 21 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
606
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,650
RANK
101,868
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University College London Faculty of Laws Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies