Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influencing Profits: The Differential Impact of Lobbying on Corporate Stock Returns

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-41

43 Pages Posted: 14 May 2016 Last revised: 26 Jun 2016

Michelle Hutchens

University of Illinois

Sonja O. Rego

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Amy Sheneman

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: April 29, 2016

Abstract

Prior research provides mixed evidence on whether corporate lobbying activities increase or decrease shareholder value. In this study we use detailed data on corporate lobbying expenditures to investigate which factors influence the returns to corporate lobbying activities. Specifically, we examine whether the returns vary by lobbying issue (e.g., tax-, defense-, or healthcare-related), by the severity of agency problems, by the lobbying approach employed, and by the potential benefits to be gained lobbying. Our results suggest that although the association between abnormal stock returns and total lobbying expenditures is generally positive and significant, the returns to lobbying vary substantially depending on the issue being lobbied. While investors expect lobbying on tax-, defense-, trade-, and federal budget-related issues to generate significant economic benefits for firms, they expect the returns to environment-related lobbying to actually decrease shareholder value. We also provide evidence that the returns to lobbying are more positive for firms with low free cash flows, for firms that adopt a relational approach to lobbying, and for firms with the largest potential benefits to be gained from lobbying. Overall, our research suggests that corporate lobbying activities represent strategic political investments that generate future economic benefits, not agency problems as asserted by some prior studies.

Keywords: Corporate Lobbying, Shareholder Value, Stock Returns, Relational Approach, Tax

JEL Classification: D21, G14, G39, H25, H32, K20, M21, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hutchens, Michelle and Rego, Sonja O. and Sheneman, Amy, Influencing Profits: The Differential Impact of Lobbying on Corporate Stock Returns (April 29, 2016). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-41, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2779697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2779697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R K Aggarwal , F Meschke , T Y Wang
Corporate political donations: investment or agency?
Business and Politics , volume 14 , issue 1 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
J Barrick
The Effect of Trade Association Lobbying on Firm's Effective Tax Rate Posted: 2013
John Barrick , Raquel Meyer Alexander
Tax Lobbying and Corporate Political Activity: How Do Firms Seek Tax Relief?
Pages: 66 Posted: 26 Sep 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
825
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,821
RANK
68,215
5 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies