Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Audit Fees - A Study of State Bank of India Group

3rd Conference on Innovative Financial Practices and Developments, Apeejay School of Management, New Delhi, 15th January, 2016

10 Pages Posted: 19 May 2016

Kamal Kishore

Apeejay School of Management

Priya Gupta

Apeejay School of Management

Date Written: May 17, 2016

Abstract

The auditors play a significant role in promoting Corporate Governance System in a corporate entity. The auditors are appointed by shareholders at the general body meeting and their fee is also decided by the shareholders. Fee of auditors generally depends upon their reputation, market trends, relationship with company, quantum of audit work, size of company’s operations and financial strength etc. The objective of this paper is to find out an empirical relationship between the audit fees and financial indicators of State Bank of India Group, India’s largest banking group. This study fills the gap in literature by exploring an intriguing question of whether the quantum of audit fees paid in State Bank of India group is an indicator of good corporate governance.

Keywords: Auditors, Audit Fees, Corporate Governance, State Bank of India Group, Financial Indicators

Suggested Citation:

Kishore, Kamal and Gupta, Priya, Corporate Governance and Audit Fees - A Study of State Bank of India Group (May 17, 2016). 3rd Conference on Innovative Financial Practices and Developments, Apeejay School of Management, New Delhi, 15th January, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2780953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Che Ahmad
The Provision of Non-Audit Services, Audit Fees and Auditor Independence
Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 40 Posted: 2006
India's Companies Act of 2015, Section 139. Available at www.mca.gov
Companies Act Posted: 2015
India's Companies Act of 2015, Section 140
Companies Act Posted: 2015
M A Geiger , D V Rama
Audit Fees, Non Audit Fees and Auditor Reporting on Stressed Companies
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 53 - 69 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,765
RANK
373,551
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies