Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank CEO Materialism: Risk Controls, Culture and Tail Risk

Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting and Economics

64 Pages Posted: 17 May 2016 Last revised: 5 Dec 2017

Robert M. Bushman

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Robert H. Davidson

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Aiyesha Dey

Harvard Business School

Abbie J. Smith

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: August 31, 2017

Abstract

Focusing on a key CEO characteristic, materialism, we investigate how the prevalence of materialistic CEOs in the banking sector has evolved over time, and how risk management policies, the behavior of non-CEO executives and bank tail risk vary with CEO materialism. We document that the proportion of banks run by materialistic CEOs increased significantly from 1994 to 2004, coinciding with major bank deregulation. Using an index reflecting the strength of risk management functions (RMI), we find that RMI is significantly lower for banks with materialistic CEOs, and that RMI significantly decreases after a materialistic CEO succeeds a non-materialistic one and increases after a non-materialistic CEO replaces a materialistic CEO. Consistent with CEOs influencing corporate culture, we find that non-CEO executives in banks with materialistic CEOs more aggressively exploited inside trading opportunities around government intervention during the financial crisis. Finally, we find that banks with materialistic CEOs have significantly more downside tail risk relative to banks with non-materialistic CEOs; the difference between groups increased significantly during the recent crisis.

Keywords: Corporate Culture, Banks, Risk Management,Tail Risk

JEL Classification: G20, G21, G28, G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Bushman, Robert M. and Davidson, Robert H. and Dey, Aiyesha and Smith, Abbie J., Bank CEO Materialism: Risk Controls, Culture and Tail Risk (August 31, 2017). Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2780088 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2780088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
V Acharya , L Pederson , T Philippon , M Richardson
Measuring systemic risk
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 47 Posted: 2017
Crossref
T Adrian , M Brunnermeier
CoVaR. American Economic Review , volume 106 , p. 1705 - 1741 Posted: 2016
Crossref
N Aktas , E Bodt , H Bollaert , R Roll
CEO narcissism and the takeover process: From private initiation to deal completion
Forthcoming Journal of Finance and Quantitative Analysis Posted: 2015
Crossref
Y Altunbas , S Manganelli , D Marques-Ibanez
Bank risk during the financial crisis: do business models matter? European Central Bank working paper 1394 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
839
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,514
RANK
66,691
28 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies