Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banking Reform, Risk-Taking, and Accounting Quality: Evidence from Post-Soviet Transition States

BOFIT Discussion Paper No. 19/2014

29 Pages Posted: 20 May 2016 Last revised: 3 Apr 2023

Yiwei Fang

Illinois Institute of Technology

Wassim Dbouk

American University of Beirut

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Lingxiang Li

SUNY at Old Westbury - School of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

The drastic banking reform within Central and Eastern Europe following the collapse of the Soviet Union provides an ideal quasi-experimental design to examine the causal effects of institutional development on accounting quality (AQ). We find that banking reform spurs significant improvement in predictive power of earnings and reductions in earnings smoothing, earnings-inflating discretionary provisions, and avoidance of reporting losses. These effects hold under alternative model specifications and after considering concurrent institutional developments. In contrast, corporate reform shows no such effects, refuting the alternative explanation that unobserved factors affect both reform speed in general and the quality of financial reporting. We further identify four specific reformative actions that are integral to the drastic banking reform process where prudential regulation contributes the most to the observed AQ improvement. It supports the conjecture that banking reform improves AQ by reducing banks’ risk-taking behaviors and, as a result, their motive behind accounting manipulation.

JEL Classification: G18, M41, M48, G38, E50, G15

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Yiwei and Dbouk, Wassim and Hasan, Iftekhar and Li, Lingxiang, Banking Reform, Risk-Taking, and Accounting Quality: Evidence from Post-Soviet Transition States (December 1, 2014). BOFIT Discussion Paper No. 19/2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2780909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
J Aharony , R Barniv , H Falk
The impact of mandatory IFRS adoption on equity valuation of accounting numbers for security investors in the EU
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 535 - 578 Posted: 2010
A Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: A reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue 1-2 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
D Bailey
Accounting in transition in the transitional economy
European Accounting Review , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 595 - 623 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,325
RANK
278,438
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bank of Finland Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies