Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Concentration and Public Disclosure: Evidence from Management Earnings and Sales Forecasts

54 Pages Posted: 19 May 2016 Last revised: 11 Apr 2019

Steve Crawford

University of Houston

Ying Huang

University of Texas at Dallas

Ningzhong Li

University of Texas at Dallas

Ziyun (Calvin) Yang

University of Houston

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 9, 2019

Abstract

This study examines the association between customer base concentration and corporate public disclosure policy. When the customer base is more concentrated, large customers face lower costs of accessing the supplier firm’s private information, reducing customers’ overall demand for the supplier’s public information, suggesting a negative association between customer concentration and the amount of public disclosure. Alternatively, large customers have greater bargaining power and may demand the supplier firm provide more public disclosures. Consistent with customer concentration facilitating private information flow from the supplier to customers, we find that the frequencies of management earnings and sales forecasts are negatively associated with customer concentration among firms with major corporate customers. These association are stronger when the supplier and customers are engaged in more relationship-specific investments, when customers’ private information acquisition costs are lower, and when it is less costly for customers to find another supplier.

Keywords: customer base concentration; major customers; public disclosure; management forecasts; relationship-specific investments

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Crawford, Steve and Huang, Ying and Li, Ningzhong and Yang, Ziyun, Customer Concentration and Public Disclosure: Evidence from Management Earnings and Sales Forecasts (April 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2781627 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2781627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and Private Information in Lending
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B Ak , P Patatoukas
Customer-Base Concentration and Inventory Efficiencies: Evidence from Manufacturing Sector , volume 25 , p. 258 - 272 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Ana M. Albuquerque , George Papadakis , Peter D. Wysocki
The Impact of Risk and Monitoring on CEO Compensation
AAA 2011 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper Pages: 49 Posted: 22 Aug 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
861
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,041
RANK
64,424
44 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies