Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Culture Dimensions and Application of IFRSs in the Banking Industry

WSEAS Transactions on Business and Economics, Vol.13 (2016), pp. 341-354

14 Pages Posted: 21 May 2016 Last revised: 3 Jun 2016

Ana Isabel Lopes

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitário de Lisboa

Date Written: November 2, 2015

Abstract

Using European and Asian banks, this paper investigates how differences in culture in different countries can be related with Loan loss provisions (LLP) based on the Hofstede’s theory. The effect of the application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) on the amount of LLP recognized in financial statements published by Banks is also under analysis. Findings suggest that some culture dimensions play a role when analyzing risk factors, but not in all situations. When scores based on characteristics and behavior attributable to national culture are conflicting, the influence of culture on loan loss provisions is rejected. However, the application of IFRSs (vs local GAAP) has an important role, changing the power of national culture to influence the levels of LLP in countries where the scores of culture dimensions are according to the theory, and mitigating that influence when the scores are conflicting, moderating the amount of LLP that Banks should report regardless of culture behavior.

Keywords: Loan loss provisions, Banking industry, Hofstede’ culture dimensions, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, G21, M14

Suggested Citation:

Lopes, Ana Isabel, Culture Dimensions and Application of IFRSs in the Banking Industry (November 2, 2015). WSEAS Transactions on Business and Economics, Vol.13 (2016), pp. 341-354, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2782494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,227
RANK
596,846
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies