Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamics of Firm-Level Financial Inclusion: Empirical Evidence from an Emerging Economy

Journal of Banking and Finance Law and Practice, 2016, 27(1), 47-68

42 Pages Posted: 21 May 2016 Last revised: 19 Jul 2017

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Asit Bhattacharyya

University of Newcastle (Australia)

Shajul Islam

Stamford University Bangladesh

Date Written: May 15, 2016

Abstract

This article examines the financial inclusion disclosure practices of Bangladeshi banks from 2008 to 2013. The authors develop a financial inclusion index from the banking firm perspective to measure the level of financial inclusion disclosures in the annual reports and explore the potential determinants of such disclosures. The results demonstrate that the level of financial inclusion disclosures improved significantly after the central bank of Bangladesh released directive relating to financial inclusion. The results also indicate that the level of financial inclusion is positively influenced by banking firm size, growth opportunities, institutional investors, audit committee size and religion-based operations of the bank, whereas the percentage of female directors and firm age are negatively associated with the level of financial inclusion disclosures. The findings of this study should be of interest to managers, regulators and policy makers in countries that share similar financial systems.

Keywords: Financial inclusion, institutional investors, agency theory, institutional theory, corporate governance, Bangladesh

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Bhattacharyya, Asit and Islam, Shajul, Dynamics of Firm-Level Financial Inclusion: Empirical Evidence from an Emerging Economy (May 15, 2016). Journal of Banking and Finance Law and Practice, 2016, 27(1), 47-68, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2782479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R Leftwich , R Watts , J Zimmerman
Voluntary Corporate Disclosure: The Case of Interim Reporting
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 50 - 77 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Meckling Jensen
Crossref
L L Eng , Y T Mak
Corporate Governance and Voluntary Disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 325 - 345 Posted: 2003
Crossref
G Michelon , Parbonetti
The Effect of Corporate Governance on Sustainability Disclosure
Journal of Management & Governance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 477 - 509 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,915
RANK
263,404
6 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies