Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Rules and Post-Acquisition Profitability for Business Combinations

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 May 2016

Victoria Dickinson

University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Daniel Wangerin

Wisconsin School of Business

John J. Wild

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: May 21, 2016

Abstract

Prior studies report a decline or no change in acquirers' profitability after a merger or business acquisition. Those studies, however, do not consider the downward impact on profitability that stems from use of the "purchase accounting" (and in later periods, "acquisition") method for business combinations. Drawing on financial statement data from both targets and acquirers, we estimate the effects of the application of purchase/acquisition method accounting rules on post-acquisition profitability. We find that recognition rules for acquired inventories, deferred revenues, in-process research and development (IPR&D), and depreciation and amortization expense resulting from writing acquired assets up to fair value vis-á-vis purchase/acquisition accounting methods are all important sources of downward pressure in post-acquisition profitability. We find that investors and analysts appear to recognize the effects of IPR&D in assessing post-acquisition profitability of the combined entity. The findings also suggest that investors and analysts do not appear to fully incorporate the accounting effects related to inventories, deferred revenues, and depreciation and amortization expense for post-acquisition profitability.

Keywords: business combinations, purchase accounting, profitability

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dickinson, Victoria and Wangerin, Daniel D. and Wild, John J., Accounting Rules and Post-Acquisition Profitability for Business Combinations (May 21, 2016). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2782894
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,731
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies