Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Causal Effect of Information Asymmetry on Auditor Choice

51 Pages Posted: 22 May 2016 Last revised: 10 Nov 2016

Simon Fung

Deakin University

Zheng Wang

City University of Hong Kong

Liandong Zhang

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Xindong Kevin Zhu

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Date Written: December 22, 2015

Abstract

We provide causal evidence on the agency cost explanation of the demand for high quality auditing. Using brokerage house closures/ mergers as a natural experiment to identify exogenous increases in agency costs arising from information asymmetry, we find that after experiencing exogenous reductions in analyst coverage, treatment firms are more likely to appoint external auditors of higher quality relative to a propensity-score-matched control firms. This effect is stronger for treatment firms with greater reductions in analyst coverage. In addition, we show that treatment firms appointing new auditors with higher quality experience increased stock liquidity and reduced cost of equity capital, suggesting that auditor choices have real benefits. We view our results as one of the first pieces of causal evidence supporting the theory that choosing high-quality external auditors is a bonding mechanism that firms use to reduce information asymmetry and the resultant agency costs.

Keywords: Brokerage house closure, analyst coverage, information asymmetry, auditor choice

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Fung, Simon and Wang, Zheng and Zhang, Liandong and Zhu, Xindong Kevin, On the Causal Effect of Information Asymmetry on Auditor Choice (December 22, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2782238 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2782238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Y Amihud , A Hameed , W Kang , H Zhang
The illiquidity premium: International evidence
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , issue 2 , p. 350 - 368 Posted: 2015
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Chee Yeow Lim , Gerald J. Lobo , Pingui Rao , Heng Yue
Financial capacity and the demand for audit quality
Accounting and Business Research , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Leye Li , Gary S. Monroe , Jeff Coulton
Managerial litigation risk and auditor choice
International Journal of Auditing , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 142 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Matthew J. Beck , Matthew Glendening , Chris E. Hogan
Financial Statement Disaggregation and Auditor Effort
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 27 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
379
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,576
RANK
179,159
3 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies