Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Hire a Big 4 Auditor 500 Miles Away?

48 Pages Posted: 27 May 2016

Li (Lily) Brooks

Texas A&M International University

Michael D. Yu

State University of West Georgia

Date Written: April 2013

Abstract

This paper investigates why a firm would hire an auditor far away from its corporate headquarter. Using a sample from the Audit Analytics database, we show that 75% of the firms hire a Big 4 auditor less than 33 miles away from their headquarters, and the median distance is only 14 miles. For the majority of firms, the driving time from a client’s headquarter to its auditor’s office is less than 45 minutes, and the median driving time is only 21 minutes. However, our results also show that some firms are willing to go the extra mile and hire a remote auditor. About 10% of the sample hire a Big 4 auditor more than 150 miles away, and some firms even hire an auditor more than 500 miles away. We test a few possible explanations, including earnings management hypothesis, competitive audit fee hypothesis, diversified operating location hypothesis, etc. Our analysis shows that firms having the tendency to manage earnings are more likely to hire a remote auditor. Specifically, we find that firms that are more likely to report small positive earnings, more likely to have financial restatements, and more likely to report higher expected discretionary accruals, tend to hire remote auditors. We also find that firms with diversified geographic segments, not operating segments, are more likely to hire remote auditors. Finally, we show that competitive audit pricing affects firms’ office choice, but only within certain distance. Beyond certain limit, there is no difference in audit fees offered by local and non-local auditors.

Keywords: Geographic Distance, Auditor Choice, Office-Level Analysis, Corporate Governance, Restatement

Suggested Citation:

Brooks, Li and Yu, Michael D., Why Hire a Big 4 Auditor 500 Miles Away? (April 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2784648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2784648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
B C Ayers , S Ramalingegowda , P Eric Yeung
Hometown advantage: The effects of monitoring institution location on financial reporting discretion
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 52 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,456
RANK
256,420
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies