Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Forward-Looking Metrics on Employee Decision-Making: The Case of Customer Lifetime Value

52 Pages Posted: 28 May 2016

Pablo Casas-Arce

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Francisco de Asis Martinez-Jerez

Cornell University; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

V. G. Narayanan

Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit

Date Written: May 1, 2016

Abstract

This paper analyzes the effects of forward-looking metrics on employee decision-making. We use data from a bank that started providing branch managers with the customer lifetime value (CLV) — an estimate of the future value of the customer relationship — of mortgage applicants. The data allows us to gauge the effects of enriching the employees’ information set in an environment where explicit incentives and decision rights remained unchanged. On average, customer value increased 5 percent after the metric’s introduction. The metric’s availability resulted in a significant shift in attention toward more profitable client segments and some improvement in cross-selling. However, the use of CLV did not negatively impact pricing or default risk, as the literature predicts. Finally, branch managers with shorter tenure displayed a stronger response, consistent with information substituting for experience.

Keywords: Forward-looking metrics, customer lifetime value (CLV), employee decision-making; cross-selling, decision aids

JEL Classification: M40, M54, M31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Casas-Arce, Pablo and Martinez-Jerez, Francisco de Asis and Narayanan, V. G., The Impact of Forward-Looking Metrics on Employee Decision-Making: The Case of Customer Lifetime Value (May 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2785561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2785561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,819
RANK
136,540
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies