Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Informed Trading in Family Firms: Evidence from Short Selling around Insider Sales

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 30 May 2016 Last revised: 3 Nov 2020

Hanwen Sun

University of Bath, School of Management

Shuxing Yin

University of Sheffield - School of Management

Date Written: January 29, 2017

Abstract

Using a novel dataset of insider trading and short selling from the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, we investigate potential information leakage from insiders to short sellers, particularly in family-controlled firms. We document a significant increase in short selling volume before information on insider sales is released to the public. The abnormal short sales are much stronger in family-controlled firms than state-owned companies and widely held companies. Furthermore, the concave relationship between the intensity of short selling and family control contributes to the debate on whether family presence facilitates or limits informed trading. We also find that, for family-controlled firms, trading by insiders who do not belong to the family attracts more attention by short sellers and comes with stronger stock return predictability.

Keywords: insider trading, short selling, family firms, informed trading

JEL Classification: G14, G18, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Hanwen and Yin, Shuxing, Informed Trading in Family Firms: Evidence from Short Selling around Insider Sales (January 29, 2017). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2786629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,384
RANK
342,507
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies