Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Differences Around the World: What Matters?

70 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2016 Last revised: 14 Jul 2016

Helena Isidro

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitario de Lisboa

Dhananjay Nanda

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Peter D. Wysocki

Boston University Questrom School of Business

Date Written: June 2, 2016

Abstract

The international financial reporting literature identifies a multitude of country attributes that each appear to explain financial reporting differences around the world. We first show that a single underlying factor explains across-country variation in 6 reporting quality measures used in the international literature. We then examine 72 country attributes and show that they are highly correlated and that 4 underlying factors explain most of the variation in these attributes across countries. Furthermore, individual country attributes provide essentially no incremental explanatory power for international reporting diversity over these 4 factors, which collectively explain over 70% of the variation in reporting differences. Our findings highlight the very high causal density of country attributes and thus the difficulty in attributing international reporting diversity to specific institutions and policies. We conclude with a discussion of possible future directions for research on financial reporting around the world.

Keywords: IFRS, International accounting, Complementarities, Correlation, Factor analysis, Financial reporting, Accounting quality, Multiple Testing

Suggested Citation:

Isidro, Helena and Nanda, Dhananjay and Wysocki, Peter D., Financial Reporting Differences Around the World: What Matters? (June 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2788741 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2788741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Truong ; Core Nguyen
Abnormal volume Abnormal trading volume over the three-day announcement window around annual earnings announcements Nguyen and Truong
Choy and Zhang Posted: 2004
Pevnzer
Return synchronicity Weighted average R 2 of regressions of firm stock returns around earnings announcement on the country's market return Posted: 2012
Karolyi
Posted: 2007
Crossref
Disclosure quality Center for Financial Analysis and Research index of disclosure practices in the country. The index based on the disclosure of 90 items in firms' 1995 annual reports Posted: 2004
Load more
16 Citations
Luca Viarengo , Stefano Gatti , Annalisa Prencipe
Enforcement Quality and the Use of Earnouts in M&A Transactions: International Evidence
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 45, Issue 3-4, pp. 437-481, 2018 · 45 Pages · Posted: 17 Apr 2018 · Downloads: 14
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tobias Steindl
Cultural rule orientation, legal institutions, and the credibility of corporate social responsibility reports
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 310 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Roger Silvers
Cross-Border Cooperation Between Securities Regulators
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 69 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2019 · Last revised: 12 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 191
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ying Cao , Sami Keskek , Linda A. Myers , Albert Tsang
The Effect of Media Competition on Analyst Forecast Properties: Cross-Country Evidence
61 Pages · Posted: 8 Sep 2014 · Last revised: 18 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 367
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,434
RANK
40,491
16 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies