Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expectations and Investment

BIS Working Paper No. 562

52 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2016

Nicola Gennaioli

Bocconi University - Department of Finance

Yueran Ma

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Andrei Shleifer

Harvard University - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 2016

Abstract

Using micro data from the Duke University quarterly survey of Chief Financial Officers, we show that corporate investment plans as well as actual investment are well explained by CFOs' expectations of earnings growth. The information in expectations data is not subsumed by traditional variables, such as Tobin's Q or discount rates. We also show that errors in CFO expectations of earnings growth are predictable from past earnings and other data, pointing to the extrapolative structure of expectations and suggesting that expectations may not be rational. This evidence, like earlier findings in finance, points to the usefulness of data on actual expectations for understanding economic behaviour.

Keywords: Expectations, corporate investment, behavioral macroeconomics

JEL Classification: E03, E22, E32, G31

Suggested Citation:

Gennaioli, Nicola and Ma, Yueran and Shleifer, Andrei, Expectations and Investment (May 2016). BIS Working Paper No. 562, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2789734
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J Abarbanell
Do analysts' earnings forecasts incorporate information in prior stock price changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , p. 147 - 65 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Gene Amromin , Steven A. Sharpe
Expectations of Risk and Return Among Household Investors: Are Their Sharpe Ratios Countercyclical?
Pages: 43 Posted: 15 Jan 2009 Last revised: 10 May 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Ang , G Bekaert , M Wei
Do macro variables, asset markets, or surveys forecast inflation better?
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 739 - 79 Posted: 2007
Crossref
G-M Angeletos , J La , &apos;
Noisy Business Cycles
NBER Macroeconomics Annual , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 319 - 78 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,399
RANK
261,368
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies