Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation-disclosure Modifications in the 10-K: Large-Sample Evidence

Li. H., 2021. "Litigation-disclosure Modifications in the 10-K: Large-Sample Evidence" Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance. Forthcoming.

25 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2016 Last revised: 25 Apr 2021

Heather Li

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 25, 2021

Abstract

This study is the first to examine the litigation-disclosure modifications of legal proceedings (i.e., Item 103) and contingency-note disclosures (i.e., ASC 450) in the 10-K. Litigation-disclosure modifications are defined as the amount of litigation content disclosed in year t but not in year t-1. I first confirm the SEC's and the FASB's concern that firms are providing less litigation-disclosure modifications. I then find firms with higher proprietary cost, higher litigation risk and non-big 4 auditors to be associated with more litigation-disclosure modifications. I also find that although firms are providing less litigation-disclosure modifications in the two litigation sections, such disclosures do predict future occurrence of litigation cases and are complementary in providing litigation information to investors. Results indirectly support the FASB’s 2012 decision to not precede with disclosure policy changes in contingency-note disclosures.

Keywords: Litigation disclosures, financial reporting standards, textual analysis, voluntary disclosures

JEL Classification: M4, K2, K22

Suggested Citation:

Li, Heather, Litigation-disclosure Modifications in the 10-K: Large-Sample Evidence (April 25, 2021). Li. H., 2021. "Litigation-disclosure Modifications in the 10-K: Large-Sample Evidence" Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance. Forthcoming. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2790675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
R K Atiase , S Supattarakul , S Tse
Market reaction to earnings surprise warnings: The incremental effect of shareholder litigation risk on the warning effect
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 222 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Bae , H Sami
The Effect of Potential Environmental Liabilities on Earnings Response Coefficients
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 70 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Banks , W R Kinney
Loss contingency reports and stock prices: An empirical study
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 240 - 254 Posted: 1982
Crossref
N C Brown , R M Crowley , W B Elliott
What are you saying? Using topic to detect financial misreporting
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 237 - 291 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
801
RANK
677,550
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies