Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inducement Grants, Hiring Announcements and Adverse Selection for New CEOs

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2016 Last revised: 14 Oct 2019

Brian D. Cadman

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Richard Carrizosa

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - School of Business Administration

Xiaoxia Peng

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business

Date Written: March 2019

Abstract

We examine how adverse selection problems when hiring new external CEOs affect contractual features of inducement grants. Focusing on the sensitivity of inducement grants to the new CEO announcement return ($Sensitivity), we find that firms provide inducement grants that are more sensitive to the new CEO announcement return when information asymmetry about the new CEO is more severe and the costs of adverse selection problems are higher. We also find a positive relation between the market reaction to the appointment and $Sensitivity. We consider factors that reduce information asymmetry (engaging a search firm or appointing internal CEOs) and find they are associated with lower sensitivity of the inducement grant to the announcement.

Keywords: Inducement Grants, CEO turnover, Adverse Selection

JEL Classification: J33, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Cadman, Brian D. and Carrizosa, Richard and Peng, Xiaoxia, Inducement Grants, Hiring Announcements and Adverse Selection for New CEOs (March 2019). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2790987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2790987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The journal of finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
A Ang , R J Hodrick , Y Xing , X Zhang
The cross-section of volatility and expected returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 299 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,452
RANK
747,544
2 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies