Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Governance

Principles of Financial Regulation (New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2016)

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 316/2016

31 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2016 Last revised: 15 Jun 2016

John Armour

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Dan Awrey

Cornell Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute

Paul L. Davies

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Luca Enriques

Bocconi University - Bocconi Law Department; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); European Banking Institute

Jeffrey N. Gordon

Columbia University - Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Colin Mayer

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Jennifer Payne

University of Oxford - Merton College

Date Written: July 1, 2016

Abstract

According to a common narrative, in addition to inadequate capital and liquidity, the failure of banks in the financial crisis also reflected their poor governance. By governance we mean broadly the oversight that comes from banks’ own shareholders and other stakeholders of the way in which they are run. The problem of bank governance stems from the way in which banks are financed and regulated, from the externalities bank failures produce, and from the nature of their assets. In the period leading up to the financial crisis, it was believed that regulation would cause banks to internalize the costs of their activities, meaning that what maximized bank shareholders’ returns would also be in the interests of society. Consequently large banks used the same governance tools as non-financial companies to minimize shareholder-management agency costs, namely independent boards, shareholder rights, the shareholder primacy norm, the threat of takeovers, and equity-based executive compensation. Unfortunately, such tools had the adverse effect of encouraging bank managers to take excessive risks: as we describe in this chapter, banks that had the most ‘pro-shareholder’ boards and the closest alignment between executive returns and the stock price were those which took the most risks prior to, and suffered the greatest losses during, the crisis. Consequently, a significant rethink about the way in which banks are governed is required. The structure and function of bank boards, the compensation of bank executives and the function of risk management within organizations needs careful crafting if governance reforms are to address not exacerbate bank failures.

Keywords: Financial regulation, bank governance, executive compensation, financial sector pay, independent directors, board structure

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Armour, John and Awrey, Dan and Davies, Paul L. and Enriques, Luca and Gordon, Jeffrey N. and Mayer, Colin and Payne, Jennifer, Bank Governance (July 1, 2016). Principles of Financial Regulation (New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2016), European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 316/2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2793112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Stage
Crd See , Iv
Art 92(a) and (g)(ii)
The FSB's guidelines also seek to ensure that the payment of variable compensation does not occur at times when the firm's capital is, or is likely to become, impaired, or when it is in receipt of government assistance
At least 50 per cent of any variable compensation must be equity-linked; at least 40 per cent of variable compensation must be deferred for more than three years; at least 60 per cent where it is 'particularly high'. And the deferral period must relate to the risks of the business: CRD IV
Load more
1 Citations
Hossein Nabilou
Bitcoin Governance as a Decentralized Financial Market Infrastructure
36 Pages · Posted: 14 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 787
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,998
RANK
32,505
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies