Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Bank Performance in Nepal

14 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2016

Prof. Dr. Radhe Shyam Pradhan

Central Dept. of Management, Tribhuvan University; Uniglobe College

Date Written: June 9, 2015

Abstract

This paper examines the impact and importance of Corporate Governance on firm performance. The return on assets and return on equity are selected as Bank’s performance variables for this study and these two are the Dependent Variables. Board Size, Total Assets and Executive CEO of the firms are the independent Corporate Governance variables. The data are collected from the Banking and Financial Statistics published by Nepal Rastra Bank, NRB Directives, legal provisions incorporated in Companies Act, 2063 and concerned by-laws regarding corporate governance, the provisions on Bank and Financial Institution Act, 2063; supervision report of Nepal Rastra Bank .In addition to these, different published articles, reports, books and magazines are also analyzed. The information regarding compliance of legal provisions on corporate governance are collected from Regulation and Supervision Department of Nepal Rastra Bank, Company Registrar Office and also from the concerned bank. The multiple regression models are applied to test the significance and importance of corporate governance in the Nepalese commercial Banks.

The result shows that there is a significant impact of corporate governance on ROA as well as ROE in the financial institutions mainly Commercial Banks. The impact of board size and total assets are positively significant with return on assets whereas the executive CEO has insignificant effect on return on assets. Board size and executive CEO have significant effect on ROE but total asset has insignificant effect on ROE.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Bank Performance

JEL Classification: G20, G34

Suggested Citation:

Pradhan, Prof. Dr. Radhe Shyam and Pradhan, Prof. Dr. Radhe Shyam, Corporate Governance and Bank Performance in Nepal (June 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2793445 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2793445
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Margaret M Blair
Ownership and Control: Re-thinking Corporate Governance for the Twenty-First Century Posted: 1995
J Dahya , A A Lonie , D M Power
The case for separating the roles of chairman and CEO：an anaylsis of stockmarket and accounting data
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 4 , p. 71 - 77 Posted: 1996
Crossref
C M Daily , D R Dalton
Boards of directors, leadership and structure: control and performance implications
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice , volume 17 , p. 65 - 81 Posted: 1993
Crossref
T Eisenberg , S Sundgren , M T Wells
Large board size and decreasing firm value in small firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 48 , p. 35 - 54 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
887
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,713
RANK
61,779
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies