Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of a Socially Responsible Investment Index on Climate Change Management and Carbon Emissions

49 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2016 Last revised: 6 Feb 2018

Craig Mackenzie

University of Edinburgh - Business School

Bill Rees

University of Edinburgh - Accounting and Finance

Tatiana Rodionova

University of Edinburgh - Business School

Date Written: June 12, 2016

Abstract

We examine the ability of a socially responsible investment index to effect firms' compliance with best-practice climate-change management and the subsequent impact on their carbon emissions. Using a quasi-experimental setting involving an international sample of large public companies we show that engagement by the index, reinforced by the threat of exclusion, stimulates compliance. The likelihood of companies adopting best practice is positively associated with the ease of moving to compliance and expectations regarding the companies' membership of the index, but adversely affected by concentrated equity ownership and by strong shareholder-oriented governance. Our measure of compliance is supported by improvements in an independent measure of emission reduction management practices. Crucially, our results offer preliminary evidence that compliance with climate change management requirements is associated with lower carbon emissions.

Keywords: Socially Responsible Investment, Carbon Emissions, Climate Change, Investor Engagement, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G30, M14

Suggested Citation:

Mackenzie, Craig and Rees, William and Rodionova, Tatiana, The Impact of a Socially Responsible Investment Index on Climate Change Management and Carbon Emissions (June 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2794613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2794613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Al-Tuwaijri , Sa , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Antonakis , S Bendahan , P Jacquart , R Lalive
On making causal claims: a review and recommendations
The Leadership Quarterly , volume 21 , p. 1086 - 1120 Posted: 2010
P Bansal , K Roth
Why companies go green: a model of ecological responsiveness
Academy of Management Journal , volume 43 , issue 4 , p. 717 - 736 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M L Barnett
Stakeholder influence capacity and the variability of financial returns to corporate social responsibility
The Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 794 - 816 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,223
RANK
222,795
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies