Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonfinancial Disclosure and Analyst Forecast Accuracy: Evidences from CO2 Emission and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosures in the US

50 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2016 Last revised: 21 Dec 2016

Lorenzo Dal Maso

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Bill Rees

University of Edinburgh - Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 30, 2016

Abstract

We examine the association with analyst forecast quality of both CO2 emission disclosure and corporate social reporting for a sample of large US firms. Using a matched sample we find, for a one, two and three-year horizons, a significant reduction in error, bias and forecast dispersion and a significant improvement of the analysts’ information environment for those firms that disclose CO2 emissions. However, we confirm a significant negative association between corporate social responsibility reporting and forecast error only for a one-year horizon and bias for a one and two-year horizon. Previous work had demonstrated a significant negative association between forecast error and CSR disclosure for an international sample but not for the US. Our results suggest nonfinancial disclosure is relevant even in a liberal market economy with transparent financial reporting.  

Keywords: CO2 Emissions Disclosure, Financial Analysts Forecast Error, Forecast Bias, Forecast Dispersion, Corporate Social Reporting, Propensity score matching

JEL Classification: M41, M14, G14

Suggested Citation:

Dal Maso, Lorenzo and Rees, William, Nonfinancial Disclosure and Analyst Forecast Accuracy: Evidences from CO2 Emission and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosures in the US (November 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2795268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
H Jo , M Harjoto
Analyst coverage, corporate social responsibility and firm risk
Business Ethics: a European Review , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 272 - 292 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C Kauffmann , C T Less , D Teichmann
Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emission Reporting: A Stocktaking of Government Schemes, OECD Working Papers on International Investment , volume 1 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Y Kim , M S Park , B Wier
Is earnings quality associated with corporate social responsibility?
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 3 , p. 761 - 796 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Lehavy , F Li , K Merkley
The effect of annual report readability on analyst following and the proprieties of their earnings forecasts
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 1087 - 1115 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,688
RANK
125,691
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies