Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Female Representation on Boards of Directors Associate with Increased Transparency and Ethical Behavior?

Larkin, Meredith B., Bernardi, Richard A., and Bosco, Susan M.: (2013). Does Female Representation on Boards of Directors Associate with Increased Transparency and Ethical Behavior? Accounting and the Public Interest, 13 (1): 132-150.

Posted: 3 Sep 2016

Meredith Larkin

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Susan M. Bosco

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: May 10, 2011

Abstract

This study examined the association between corporate transparency and ethical orientation of Fortune 500 companies and the number of females represented on the board of directors from 2010 annual report data. Our basis for this judgment was whether the firm was listed on either (both) Ethisphere Magazine’s 2010 “World’s Most Ethical Companies” or (and) Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s 2010 “100 Best Corporate Citizens List.” Our results indicate that, as the number of women directors increased, the probability of a corporation appearing on these lists increased. We also found that a “critical mass” of women directors was indicated by the data for Ethisphere Magazine’s but not Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s list.

Keywords: Transparency, Ethics, Women Directors

JEL Classification: G39

Suggested Citation:

Larkin, Meredith and Bernardi, Richard A. and Bosco, Susan M., Does Female Representation on Boards of Directors Associate with Increased Transparency and Ethical Behavior? (May 10, 2011). Larkin, Meredith B., Bernardi, Richard A., and Bosco, Susan M.: (2013). Does Female Representation on Boards of Directors Associate with Increased Transparency and Ethical Behavior? Accounting and the Public Interest, 13 (1): 132-150. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795844
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,389
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies