Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Different Types of Internal Controls on Employee Self-Control

35 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2016

Drew Allen

Brigham Young University

William G. Heninger

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 14, 2016

Abstract

One key reason companies implement internal controls is to reduce the likelihood of unethical behavior. Yet, research on ego depletion from psychology suggests that some controls may cause reductions in employees’ self-control, which could lead to increases in unethical behavior. Therefore, this study examines how different types of controls — namely preventive, detective with immediate feedback, and detective with delayed feedback — impact self-control and ethical judgments. Based on the results of three different experiments with 462 participants, we find no significant relation between self-control and the types of internal controls tested. Furthermore, we find that the types of controls tested have no effect on ethical judgments or ethical ideology. Thus, our results suggest that controls in general and some types of internal controls do not differentially impact self-control.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Ego Depletion, Ethics, Preventive Controls, Detective Controls

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, G3

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Charles and Heninger, William G. and Summers, Scott L. and Wood, David A., The Effects of Different Types of Internal Controls on Employee Self-Control (June 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795815 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2795815
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
C M Barnes , J Schaubroeck , M Huth , S Ghumman
Lack of sleep and unethical conduct
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 115 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 180 Posted: 2011
Crossref
T Barnett , K Bass , G Brown
Ethical ideology and ethical judgment regarding ethical issues in business
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 469 - 480 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R F Baumeister , E Bratslavsky , M Muraven , D M Tice
Ego depletion: Is the active self a limited resource
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 74 , issue 5 , p. 1252 - 1265 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Mohammadzadeh. M , Jahandaari. P , Zargar Balaye Jame. S , Rafizadeh. F
The relationship between personality types and type of control source and self-efficacy rate military personnel
Military Caring Sciences , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 211 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,935
RANK
181,327
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies