Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Bundling and Securities Litigation

San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 16-219

53 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2016 Last revised: 28 Nov 2016

Barbara A. Bliss

University of San Diego

Frank Partnoy

University of California, Berkeley - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Michael Furchtgott

University of California, San Diego (UCSD) - Department of Economics

Date Written: November 26, 2016

Abstract

We examine two distinct forms of information bundling that can occur when a firm releases a restatement: “positive bundling,” the release of good news with the restatement, and “negative bundling,” the release of additional bad news. We use a triple differences testing approach to exploit the exogenous shock of a 2005 U.S. Supreme Court decision that heightened the loss causation requirements in securities class actions to examine how information bundling affects litigation risk and outcomes. We find that positive bundling offsets the stock decline at the restatement announcement, and significantly reduces the likelihood of litigation. In contrast, negative bundling magnifies the stock price decline accompanying a restatement, but makes litigation less attractive, by confounding the evidence about which piece of bad news caused the decline. On average, non-bundled restatements are 5.94 times more likely to result in litigation compared to bundled restatements in our set of treatment firms. Among restatements that lead to lawsuits, bundled restatements are 8.17 times more likely to be dismissed and are associated with approximately $20 to $24 million lower average settlement amounts.

Keywords: strategic information disclosure, class-action securities lawsuits, litigation risk, earnings restatements

JEL Classification: K22, K41, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bliss, Barbara A. and Partnoy, Frank and Furchtgott, Michael, Information Bundling and Securities Litigation (November 26, 2016). San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 16-219, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2795164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
J L Rogers , A Van Buskirk
Shareholder litigation and changes in disclosure behavior
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 156 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J L Rogers , A Van Buskirk
Bundled forecasts in empirical accounting research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 65 Posted: 2013
Crossref
G C Sanger , J D Peterson
An empirical analysis of common stock delistings
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 261 - 272 Posted: 1990
Crossref
S Scholz
Financial restatement trends in the United States Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,784
RANK
174,026
13 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of San Diego Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies