Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banks as Tax Planning Intermediaries

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 57, No. 1, 2019

77 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2016 Last revised: 2 Mar 2019

John Gallemore

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Brandon Gipper

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Edward L. Maydew

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

We provide the first large-scale empirical evidence of banks functioning as tax planning intermediaries. We posit that some banks specialize in assisting corporate clients with tax planning. In this role, banks make use of their centrality in financial relationships; access to private information; and ability to structure, execute, and participate in tax planning transactions for clients. We measure bank-client relationships using loan contracts and measure client tax planning using either the cash effective tax rate or the unrecognized tax benefit balance. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that firms experience meaningful tax reductions when they begin a relationship with a bank whose existing clients engage in above-median tax planning. The effects of pairing with such tax intermediary banks are concentrated in relationships with larger or longer maturity loans, clients with foreign income or greater credit risk, and when the bank is an industry specialist or has above-median investment banking activities. Finally, we find that potential clients are more likely to choose tax intermediary banks than non-tax intermediary banks, suggesting that tax intermediary banks benefit by attracting new business. Collectively, our results suggest that some banks act as tax planning intermediaries, a role beyond the traditional one of financial intermediary.

Keywords: banks, borrowers, tax planning

JEL Classification: G21, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Gallemore, John and Gipper, Brandon and Maydew, Edward L., Banks as Tax Planning Intermediaries (October 1, 2018). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 57, No. 1, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2796132 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2796132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M Amiti , D E Weinstein
Exports and Financial Shocks
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 126 , issue 4 , p. 1841 - 1877 Posted: 2011
Crossref
How Much Do Bank Shocks Affect Investment? Evidence from Matched BankFirm Loan Data
Journal of Political Economy Posted: 2017
Crossref
J D Angrist
The Perils of Peer Effects
Labour Economics , volume 30 , p. 98 - 108 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The Incentives for Tax Planning
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
823
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,067
RANK
68,413
13 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies