Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Powerful CEOs and Stock Price Crash Risk

FIRN Research Paper No. 2791707

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

74 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2016 Last revised: 26 Jan 2020

Md Al Mamun

La Trobe University - Department of Economics and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Balasingham Balachandran

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia; Financial Research Network (FIRN); La Trobe University - School of Economics and Finance

Huu Nhan Duong

Monash University - Department of Banking and Finance; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: January 23, 2020

Abstract

We find that powerful chief executive officers (CEOs) are associated with higher crash risk. The positive association between CEO power and crash risk holds when controlling for earnings management, tax avoidance, chief executive officer’s option incentives, and CEO overconfidence. Firms with powerful CEOs have higher probability of financial restatement, lower proportion of negative to positive earnings guidance, and lower ratio of negative to positive words in their financial statements. The association between powerful CEOs and higher crash risk is mostly evident among firms with higher sensitivity of CEO wealth to stock prices and when CEOs have lower general skills. External monitoring mechanisms weaken but do not eliminate the association between powerful founder CEOs and higher crash risk.

Keywords: CEO power, CEO option delta, CEO overconfidence, CEO general skills, stock price crash risk, corporate governance.

JEL Classification: G12, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Al Mamun, Md and Balachandran, Balasingham and Duong, Huu Nhan, Powerful CEOs and Stock Price Crash Risk (January 23, 2020). FIRN Research Paper No. 2791707, Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2797107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2797107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Rev. Financ. Stud , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Understanding the relationship between founderCEOs and firm performance
J. Empir. Financ , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 136 - 150 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
J. Account. Econ , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Crossref
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
J. Corp. Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,384
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,777
RANK
32,716
28 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies