Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and CEO Compensation in Indian Firms

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

Posted: 22 Jun 2016

Sudhir S. Jaiswall

Finance & Control Group, Indian Institute of Management Calcutta

Asish K. Bhattacharyya

Nonlinear Insights ; Shiv Nadar University; Shiv Nadar University

Date Written: June 8, 2016

Abstract

We examine the role of the board, ownership, and CEO characteristics in CEO compensation in Indian firms. Contrary to the evidence documented in prior studies, we find that CEO compensation is not associated with board characteristics. Instead, compensation is associated with firm’s ownership attributes and its CEO’s tenure. We also document that leaving out CEO fixed effects in a longitudinal compensation study can lead to potentially erroneous conclusions about the role of several governance attributes in CEO compensation contracting. Finally, we find that CEO compensation attributed to ownership characteristics in the private sector is positively related to future firm performance, whereas remuneration attributed to board and CEO characteristics in both private and public sectors are not. Our evidence is consistent with efficient CEO compensation contracting, rather than CEO rent extraction, in Indian firms.

Keywords: CEO compensation, corporate governance, ownership structure, board, public and private sector, India

JEL Classification: M52, G32, G34, C23

Suggested Citation:

Jaiswall, Sudhir Shiv Kumar and Bhattacharyya, Asish K., Corporate Governance and CEO Compensation in Indian Firms (June 8, 2016). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2797904
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,104
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies