Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Legal and Regulatory Environment: A Study of Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices of Firms Listed on Bombay Stock Exchange

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance 2016, Vol. 15, No. 2, pp. 7-36

30 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2016

Pankaj M. Madhani

Former Dean (Academics) & Professor

Date Written: June 17, 2016

Abstract

Governance depends on both country-level as well as firm-level mechanisms. The country-level governance mechanisms include a country’s laws, its culture and norms, and the institutions that enforce the laws. Firm level or internal governance mechanisms are those that operate within the firm. Apart from firm-level governance mechanism, it is also important to study whether the institutional, legal and regulatory environments for shareholder protection rights and the corporate governance structure are complementary or substitute of each other. This research looks into the institutional, legal and regulatory environments of the US, UK, Luxembourg and India from the perspective of corporate governance and disclosure practices by studying a sample of 54 firms across various sectors listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange, India. The research seeks to empirically investigate whether they are significantly different for firms cross-listed in those countries. The research suggests that legal and regulatory environments for corporate governance and internal corporate governance are not substitutes. On the contrary, they are complementary because strong corporate governance at the country level reinforces the effectiveness of internal governance at the firm level, increasing the effect of internal corporate governance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Journal, New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), NASDAQ, London Stock Exchange (LSE), Legal and Regulatory Environment, Corporate Governance, Disclosure Practices, Firms Listed, Bombay Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Madhani, Pankaj M., The Impact of Legal and Regulatory Environment: A Study of Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices of Firms Listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (June 17, 2016). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance 2016, Vol. 15, No. 2, pp. 7-36 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2797146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in Governance Practices between US and Foreign Firms: Measurement, Causes, and Consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R V Aguilera , Jackson G
The Cross-national Diversity of Corporate Governance: Dimensions and Determinants
The Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility: A Comparative Analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
Crossref
H K Baker , J Nofsinger , D G Weaver
International Cross-Listing and Visibility
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 495 - 521 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,933
RANK
322,813
1 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies