Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Warnings and CEO Welfare

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2016/08

63 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2016

Ping Wang

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Masako N. Darrough

Baruch College - CUNY

Linna Shi

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Date Written: June 20, 2016

Abstract

Some CEOs decide voluntarily to issue a warning when they expect a negative earnings surprise. Prior research suggests that warnings contain incremental information beyond actual earnings; warning firms tend to experience permanent earnings decreases. This paper investigates whether compensation committees take warnings into account in setting CEO compensation. We find that warnings are significantly negatively (positively) associated with CEO bonus (option grants), suggesting that compensation committees adjust CEO compensation towards a more high-powered structure after warnings. However, the sensitivity of bonus or option grants to earnings and stock returns is not affected except for bonus sensitivity to stock returns. We also find weak evidence of an increase in forced CEO turnover after warnings, accompanied by a significant increase in its sensitivity to stock returns. This benefits CEOs with higher ability but imposes more risk on other CEOs. These findings provide a partial explanation of why not every CEO facing a negative surprise decides to issue a warning. Our results are robust to various specifications. In particular, the impact of warnings on compensation appears invariant to the timing or the number of warnings. Overall, these findings suggest that the signal from warnings is used in determining CEO compensation and retention.

Keywords: management guidance, warnings, CEO compensation, CEO turnover

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Ping and Darrough, Masako N. and Shi, Linna, Earnings Warnings and CEO Welfare (June 20, 2016). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2016/08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2798173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
J J Heckman
Sample Selection Bias as a Specification Error
Econometrica , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 153 - 161 Posted: 1979
Crossref
F Heflin , K R Subramanyam , Y Zhang
Regulation FD and the Financial Information Environment: Early Evidence , volume 78 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Holmstrӧm
Moral Hazard and Observability
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 74 - 91 Posted: 1979
Crossref
B J Houston , J W Lev , Tucker
To Guide or Not to Guide? Causes and Consequences of Stopping Quarterly Earnings Guidance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 143 - 185 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,827
RANK
545,411
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies