Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cuba Conundrum: Corporate Governance and Compliance Challenges for U.S. Publicly-Traded Companies

University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, Volume 18, Number 3, Spring 2016

St. Thomas University School of Law (Florida) Research Paper No. 2016-04

23 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2016 Last revised: 28 Sep 2016

Marcia Narine Weldon

University of Miami School of Law

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

The list of companies exploring business opportunities in Cuba reads like a who’s who of household names- Starwood Hotels, Netflix, Jet Blue, Carnival, Google, and AirBnB are either conducting business or have publicly announced plans to do so now that the Obama administration has normalized relations with Cuba. The 1962 embargo and the 1996 Helm-Burton Act remain in place, but companies are preparing for or have already been taking advantage of the new legal exemptions that ban business with Cuba. Many firms, however, may not be focusing on the corporate governance and compliance challenges of doing business in Cuba. This Essay will briefly discuss the pitfalls related to doing business with state-owned enterprises like those in Cuba; the particular complexity of doing business in Cuba; and the challenges of complying with US anti-bribery and whistleblower laws in the totalitarian country. I will also raise the possibility that Cuba will return to a state of corporatism and the potential impact that could have on compliance and governance programs. I conclude that board members have a fiduciary duty to ensure that their companies comply with existing US law despite these challenges and recommend a code of conduct that can be used for Cuba or any emerging markets which may pose similar difficulties.

Suggested Citation:

Narine Weldon, Marcia, The Cuba Conundrum: Corporate Governance and Compliance Challenges for U.S. Publicly-Traded Companies (March 1, 2016). University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, Volume 18, Number 3, Spring 2016, St. Thomas University School of Law (Florida) Research Paper No. 2016-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2798697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Int&apos;l Labour , Org
The US: A Leading Roles in the ILO Posted: 2016
Crossref
Int&apos;l Labour , Org
Ratifications for Cuba Posted: 2016-02-23
Marc Frank
Foreign businesses tread carefully as Cuba opens up, FIN. TIMES , volume 12 Posted: 2015-02-01
Crossref
Inst , Cuban &amp; Cuban-American , Stud , Univ , Of , Miami
The Plight of Cuban Workers: Rights Violations by the Cuban Government and Foreign Investors Posted: 2012-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,337
RANK
601,090
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies