Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality and Usability of XBRL Filings in the US

International Journal of Accounting and Taxation December 2017, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 1-9

38 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2016 Last revised: 15 Nov 2017

Ariel J. Markelevich

Suffolk University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 21, 2016

Abstract

In 2009, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required all public companies and mutual funds to report their financial information to the SEC using a markup language called eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL). The purpose of this requirement was to improve the accessibility to financial accounting data, increase the information flow between companies and investors, and make it easier and cheaper to collect and analyze data. Some controversy exists whether the benefits from using XBRL based data outweigh the costs associated with the creation of data and the use of the data. As part of that discussion, some claimed that the XBRL filings are of low quality and are difficult to use. The purpose of this paper is to examine the quality and usability of XBRL filings by examining different filing characteristics and mistakes over time. The focus of this paper is on the following characteristics: the use of extended tags, Document and Entity Information (DEI) errors, scale errors, and sign switches. Findings suggested that starting in 2012, there has been a steady improvement in the quality and usability of the XBRL filings in most aspects. Additionally, it seems that the lower quality and usability originates in data in the notes to the financial statements and in data filed by smaller companies. The results presented in the paper are consistent with the notion of companies moving along a learning curve and improving the quality and usability of the XBRL data as they gain more experience tagging. These improvements make it easier to use the XBRL filings and reap the benefits offered by this data. However, in spite of the efforts and improvements, it seems like more work is needed to continue improving the quality of the data.

Keywords: XBRL, Quality of XBRL

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Markelevich, Ariel J., The Quality and Usability of XBRL Filings in the US (June 21, 2016). International Journal of Accounting and Taxation December 2017, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 1-9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2798732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2798732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Research Shows XBRL Filing Costs Lower than Expected Posted: 2015
Efrim Boritz , Won Gyun No
How Significant are the Differences in Financial Data Provided by Key Data Sources? A Comparison of XBRL, Compustat, Yahoo! Finance, and Google Finance
Journal of Information Systems (2020) 34 (3): 47–75 https://doi.org/10.2308/isys-52618, Posted: 19 Apr 2013 Last revised: 2 Dec 2021
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Debreceny , S Farewell , M Piechockic , C Felden , A Gräning
Does it add up? Early evidence on the data quality of XBRL filings to the SEC
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 296 - 306 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Efendi , J D Park , L M Smith
Do XBRL filings enhance informational efficiency? Early evidence from post-earnings announcement drift
Journal of Business Research , volume 67 , issue 6 , p. 1099 - 1105 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,516
RANK
193,883
2 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies