Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Now is the Time to Statutorily Ban Insider Trading Under the Equality of Access Theory

William & Mary Business Law Review (Volume 7, Issue 2, March 2016)

72 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2016

Bruce W. Klaw

University of Denver, Daniels College of Business; University of Denver, Daniels College of Business, Dept. of Business Ethics and Legal Studies

Date Written: March 2016

Abstract

This Article makes the case for a new U.S. statutory provision that defines and prohibits insider trading under an "equality of access" theory. It supports this claim, and contributes to the important public dialogue concerning this prevalent practice, by highlighting the moral and legal gaps in existing U.S. law that result from understanding the harms of trading on the basis of material nonpublic information solely with reference to fiduciary breach or misappropriation, as evidenced by the recent cases of United States v. Newman and United States v. Salman. It weaves legal analysis together with current literature in business ethics, moral philosophy, finance, and accounting to consolidate and offer new arguments in the long-standing debate over insider trading based on Rawlsian social contract theory, applied deontology, and empirically informed utilitarianism. It then draws on lessons learned from empirical analysis of European states' adoption of the equality of access theory under the Market Abuse Directive. Finally, it analyzes three insider trading bills currently pending in Congress and makes the case for a statute, like S. 702, that will prohibit the use, by anyone, of material information concerning a financial instrument that is not, at least in principle, available to others through independent and otherwise lawful due diligence.

Keywords: Insider Trading, Securities, Fraud, Cheating, Newman, Salman, Business Ethics, Utilitarianism, Market Abuse

JEL Classification: K14, K22, K42

Suggested Citation:

Klaw, Bruce W., Why Now is the Time to Statutorily Ban Insider Trading Under the Equality of Access Theory (March 2016). William & Mary Business Law Review (Volume 7, Issue 2, March 2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2799917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,671
RANK
560,264
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies