Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Family Firms Issue More Readable Annual Reports? Evidence from the United States

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2016 Last revised: 5 Oct 2023

Qunfeng Liao

Oakland University-Department of Accounting and Finance

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Ke Wang

University of Alberta - School of Business

Date Written: September 12, 2023

Abstract

Using a sample of 22,442 firm-year observations for 3,721 U.S. listed firms, we show that family firms, on average, issue annual reports with higher readability than non-family firms. Higher readability could occur due to lower obfuscation or less information conveyance. By controlling complexity and choosing readability measures linked to obfuscation, we attribute the higher readability to lower obfuscation. Our investigation into the heterogeneity in family firms shows that the positive effect of family control on reporting readability exists for eponymous family firms but not for non-eponymous family firms. We also find that family firms managed by founders or heirs issue more readable 10-K reports than non-family firms, but family firms managed by outsiders do not exhibit such a difference. Cross-sectional analyses show that the difference in readability between family and non-family firms diminishes for firms with more earnings manipulation, weaker board governance, and dual-class shares. Further, we find that investors perceive family firms' annual reports with higher readability to be more informative. Finally, we use state-level succession tax cuts as an exogenous shock to link the higher readability to family insiders' incentives and preferences. Our findings are consistent with the view that family insiders' incentive to maintain family reputation contributes to lower obfuscation in 10-K narrative disclosures.

Keywords: family firm, readability, reputation cost, agency cost

JEL Classification: M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Liao, Qunfeng and Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin and Wang, Ke, Do Family Firms Issue More Readable Annual Reports? Evidence from the United States (September 12, 2023). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2800834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2800834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
A Ali , T.-Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1-2 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
R C Anderson , A Duru , D M Reeb
Founders, heirs, and corporate opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,991
RANK
362,694
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies