Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opportunistic stock splits

52 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2016 Last revised: 29 Jun 2020

Ahmed Elnahas

The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Pankaj K. Jain

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Thomas H. McInish

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Date Written: June 27, 2020

Abstract

We investigate CEOs who combine insider selling with stock splits, which is suspicious because dumping stocks is inconsistent with the positive stock-split signal. Our empirical results indicate that, compared with other splits, these suspicious splits are followed by a 53 percent lower buy-and-hold-abnormal return, a 68 percent higher likelihood of announcing an earnings restatement, and a 48 percent higher likelihood of CEO turnover within the 5-year, post-split period. Our results are robust to the use of propensity-score matching and to controlling for CEO characteristics, incentives, and corporate governance. Our findings concerning these stock splits highlight agency issues that are understudied.

Suggested Citation:

Elnahas, Ahmed and Jain, Pankaj K. and McInish, Thomas H., Opportunistic stock splits (June 27, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2800765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2800765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,234
RANK
254,445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies