Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multiple Directorships, Family Ownership and the Board Nomination Committee: International Evidence from the GCC

Emerging Markets Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 29 Jun 2016

Baban Eulaiwi

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Grantley Taylor

Curtin University - School of Accounting

Khamis Al-Yahyaee

Sultan Qaboos University; Economic Research Forum

John Evans

Curtin University

Date Written: June 25, 2016

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate the association between outside board directorships and family ownership concentration. Using a sample of 1091 firm-year observations of non-financial publicly listed firms from Gulf Cooperation Countries (GCC) during the 2005 to 2013 period, we find a positive association between family ownership and the number of outside directorships held by board members. This finding is consistent with the notion that family ownership reduces a board’s monitoring capabilities. We also test whether the recent corporate governance reforms in the GCC designed to protect investors and minority shareholders affect firms’ incentives to establish a board nomination committee (NC). We find the existence of a board NC and the quality and characteristics of NC membership act to suppress the positive association between outside directorships and family ownership. Our results are robust to the use of alternative measures of outside directorship and family ownership and models that test for endogeneity. Overall, our results suggest that the institutional specificities of emerging economies such as those in the GCC can work against sustained high levels of multiple directorships, which could impair the quality of corporate governance.

Keywords: Gulf cooperation council, directorships, family ownership, nomination

JEL Classification: G3, G32

Suggested Citation:

Eulaiwi, Baban and Al-Hadi, Ahmed and Taylor, Grantley and Al-Yahyaee, Khamis and Evans, John, Multiple Directorships, Family Ownership and the Board Nomination Committee: International Evidence from the GCC (June 25, 2016). Emerging Markets Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2800587
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,446
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies