Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Governance on Classification Shifting and Compensation Shielding

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2016 Last revised: 8 Nov 2017

Jeong Hwan Joo

Business Administration School, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology

Sandra Chamberlain

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Division of Accounting

Date Written: June 19, 2016

Abstract

Prior research (e.g., Dechow, Huson, and Sloan 1994) documents that, on average, compensation practices appear to shield CEO pay from income-decreasing special items. In some circumstances, compensation shielding can be efficient. For example, it may encourage CEOs with earnings-sensitive pay to take an action that reduces current earnings but nevertheless enhances value. Compensation shielding can be inefficient in other circumstances, such as when a board of directors is captured by an overly-powerful CEO or the magnitude of negative special items has been overstated (e.g., by shifting core expenses into special items.) This paper explores whether strong governance can explain cross-sectional variation compensation shielding, and whether stronger governance and auditing are associated with less shifting of expenses. We find that strong corporate governance mechanisms, as captured by board (and committee) independence, the Sarbanes-Oxley (2002) Act (SOX) and its related governance reforms, and switches to Big-4 auditors, are all associated with less compensation shielding. While our evidence suggests that strong overall governance is associated with a reduction in manipulation of core earnings through classification shifting in the cross-section, we find inconclusive evidence to suggest that board independence or SOX influence classification shifting.

Keywords: CEO Compensation, Compensation Shielding, Special Items, Classification Shifting, Corporate Governance, Board Independence

JEL Classification: M41, G38, J33

Suggested Citation:

Joo, Jeong Hwan and Chamberlain, Sandra L., The Effects of Governance on Classification Shifting and Compensation Shielding (June 19, 2016). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2800016 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2800016
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,804
RANK
317,057
9 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies