Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Laborism, Investment Efficiency in Labor, and Operating Performance Around the World

51 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2016

Boochun Jung

University of Hawaii at Manoa - School of Accountancy

Tony Kang

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Woo-Jong Lee

Seoul National University

Gaoguang (Stephen) Zhou

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU) – Department of Accountancy and Law; Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU); Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: June 29, 2016

Abstract

We examine how labor-friendly institutional features, i.e., laborism, relate to corporate investment efficiency in labor in a sample that represents 33 countries during 1996 to 2012. We consider various dimensions of laborism such as the presence of left-leaning government, rigidity of employee protection laws, and collectivist culture. We hypothesize that due to higher labor adjustment costs associated with laborism, firms operating in stronger laborism countries make more inefficient labor investment decisions. Supporting this hypothesis, we document that laborism is negatively related to labor investment efficiency – firms deviate more from the optimal level of labor investment in the presence of stronger laborism. We further find that laborism reduces labor productivity as well as future operating performance, aggravating future GDP per capita in the economy.

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Boochun and Kang, Tony and Lee, Woo-Jong and Zhou, Gaoguang (Stephen), Laborism, Investment Efficiency in Labor, and Operating Performance Around the World (June 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2801938 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2801938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakimaran
Are selling, general, and administrative costs "sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Atanassov , E Kim
Labor and corporate governance: International evidence from restructuring decisions
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 1 , p. 341 - 374 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Baker , J C Stein , J Wurgler
When does the market matter? Stock prices and the investment of equity-dependent firms
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , issue 3 , p. 969 - 1005 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Balakrishnan , M Peterson , N Soderstrom
Does capacity utilization affect the "stickiness" of cost
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 283 - 299 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,321
RANK
269,796
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies