Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation into the Roles, Characteristics, Expectations and Evaluation Practices of Audit Committees

Martinov-Bennie, N., Soh, D. S. B., Tweedie, D. (2015) "An investigation into the roles, characteristics, expectations and evaluation practices of audit committees", Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 30 Iss: 8/9, pp.727-755, DOI/10.1108/MAJ-05-2015-1186

47 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2019

Nonna Martinov-Bennie

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Dominic Canestrari-Soh

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Dale Tweedie

Macquarie University

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates how the roles, characteristics, expectations and evaluation practices of audit committees have adapted to regulatory change, and what practices are most conducive to effective audit committees.

Design/methodology/approach: This paper uses semi-structured interviews with audit committee chairs and chief audit executives.

Findings: While new regulation is a primary driver of changes in the roles of audit committees, the audit committee’s role has evolved beyond regulatory requirements. Audit committees are taking a more active role in organisational governance and performance in key areas such as risk management. However, while audit committees have a clear concept of what characteristics committee members require, conceptual frameworks and mechanisms for evaluating the performance of committees and their members remain underdeveloped.

Research implications: The responses of audit committees in Australia to broader regulatory trends suggest that more research is required into how audit committees function in practice, and into developing new frameworks for evaluating the committees’ performance. This paper provides an in-depth exploration of key areas of audit committee performance, and identifies aspects that might be further investigated.

Practical implications: The paper identifies key attributes of effective audit committees, and especially the characteristics of audit committee members. The paper also identifies a need to improve – and in many cases create – performance evaluation frameworks and mechanisms. Given the international regulatory trend towards greater reliance on audit committees to improve governance, more policy attention is required on developing guidelines and assessment processes that evaluate whether audit committees are fulfilling their legislative mandate in practice.

Originality/value: The paper contributes to the relatively new and more specific discussion on reviewing and evaluating the performance of the board and its subcommittees.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Committees, Audit Committees, Board Evaluation

Suggested Citation:

Martinov-Bennie, Nonna and Canestrari-Soh, Dominic and Tweedie, Dale, An Investigation into the Roles, Characteristics, Expectations and Evaluation Practices of Audit Committees (2015). Martinov-Bennie, N., Soh, D. S. B., Tweedie, D. (2015) "An investigation into the roles, characteristics, expectations and evaluation practices of audit committees", Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 30 Iss: 8/9, pp.727-755, DOI/10.1108/MAJ-05-2015-1186, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2801898
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
L J Abbott , S Parker
Auditor Selection and Audit Committee Characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit Committee Characteristics and Restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H Aldamen , K Duncan , S Kelly , R Mcnamara , S Nagel
Audit committee characteristics and firm performance during the global financial crisis
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 971 - 1000 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D S Archambeault , F T Dezoort
Auditor opinion shopping and the audit committee: An analysis of suspicious auditor switches
International Journal of Auditing , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 52 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,159
RANK
649,230
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies