Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vote Avoidance and Shareholder Voting in Mergers and Acquisitions

Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 31, Issue 8, pp. 3176-3211, 2018

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 481/2016

81 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2016 Last revised: 23 Oct 2019

Kai Li

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business; Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER); China Academy of Financial Research (CAFR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Canadian Sustainable Finance Network (CSFN)

Tingting Liu

University of Tennessee, Knoxville; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

J. (Julie) Wu

University of Nebraska - Lincoln

Date Written: January 6, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether, how, and why acquirer shareholder voting matters. We show that acquirers with low institutional ownership, high deal risk, and high agency costs are more likely to bypass shareholder voting. Such acquirers have lower announcement returns and make higher offers than those who do not. To avoid a shareholder vote, acquirers increase equity issuance and cut payout to raise the portion of cash in mixed-payment deals. Employing a regression discontinuity design, we show a positive causal effect of shareholder voting concentrated among acquirers with higher institutional ownership. We conclude that shareholder voting mitigates agency problems in corporate acquisitions.

Keywords: vote avoidance; shareholder voting; mergers and acquisitions; acquirer announcement returns; regression discontinuity design; agency problems; offer premium; institutional monitoring

JEL Classification: G32; G34; G38

Suggested Citation:

Li, Kai and Liu, Tingting and Wu, J. (Julie), Vote Avoidance and Shareholder Voting in Mergers and Acquisitions (January 6, 2018). Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 31, Issue 8, pp. 3176-3211, 2018, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 481/2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2801580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2801580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
You are cordially invited to attend a Special Meeting of Shareholders of Data Processing Resources Corporation, a California corporation Posted: 1998
Dprc Acquisition Dprc , Corp
Acquisition Corp."), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger Posted: 1998-06-16
DPRC Common Stock") in accordance with an exchange ratio (the "Exchange Ratio") based on the total consideration to be delivered with respect to the Merger. In connection with the Merger, DPRC will assume SPC's existing stock option plan. Following the Merger
Merger Consideration"). The total number of shares of DPRC Common Stock anticipated to be issued in connection with the Merger is estimated to be between 2.7 million and 3.0 million (the "Share Issuance"). Of such number of shares, approximately two-thirds are expected to be issued upon consummation of the Merger in exchange for the outstanding shares of SPC common stock and for the cancellation of the SPC performance stock options and the remaining number of shares, approximately onethird
The aggregate consideration to be delivered in connection with the Merger will be paid exclusively in shares of DPRC Common Stock valued at $87.5 million less deductions for certain costs and liabilities to be assumed by DPRC (the
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,202
RANK
39,402
6 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies