Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Founder Control, Opacity and Value Creation in Family Firms

51 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2016 Last revised: 17 Aug 2017

Wei Hsu

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Yvonne Lee

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Nandu J. Nagarajan

University of Texas at Arlington

Bin Srinidhi

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting; City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 4, 2017

Abstract

The extant literature on family-controlled firms in the U.S. presents a mixed picture on how family control affects opacity and value creation. In this study, we show that the mixed results arise from the differences among family firms with regard to the presence of founders and the extent of decision rights held by them. Specifically, we find that family firms in which founders are present and have significant decision rights (influence), are more transparent and have higher valuations, compared to similar non-family firms. In further analysis, we show that founders improve the operating efficiency of their firms and this partly explains the additional value creation in founder firms. We find all these effects to be stronger when founders have greater decision rights (influence). In contrast, non-founder family firms are more opaque than their non-family counterparts. Furthermore, we document cross-sectional variations in the impact of Founder-CEOs on opacity and value based on their tenure and horizon. For Founder-CEOs, firm opacity increases (decreases) and value decreases (increases) with founder tenure (founder horizon).

Keywords: Founder, Family firm, Opacity, Firm Value

JEL Classification: G3, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Wei and Lee, Yvonne and Nagarajan, Nandu J. and Srinidhi, Bin and Srinidhi, Bin, Founder Control, Opacity and Value Creation in Family Firms (August 4, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2801713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2801713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A T Y Ali , S Chen; , Radhakrishnan
Corporate Disclosures by Family Firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO Tenure and Earnings Management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R C.; A Anderson , D M Duru , Reeb
Founders, Heirs, and Corporate Opacity in the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 92 , p. 205 - 222 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family Ownership and Firm Performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
835
RANK
702,914
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies