Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust and Debt Contracting: Evidence from the Backdating Scandal

67 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2016 Last revised: 6 Feb 2021

Veljko Fotak

School of Management, University at Buffalo (SUNY); Sovereign Investment Lab, Baffi Carefin, Bocconi University

Feng Jiang

University at Buffalo - School of Management

Haekwon Lee

The University of Sydney

Erik Lie

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: November 3, 2017

Abstract

We study the effect of trust on debt contracting. We find that, after the revelation of option backdating, borrowers that likely backdated their previous option grants pay higher interest rates on loans. This adverse effect is mitigated by CEO replacements. Results are similar for public debt, but only if a third party identified the backdaters. After the backdating revelation, firms that engaged in backdating increase their reliance on public debt, and those without access to the public debt market experience capital constraints.

Keywords: Corporate culture; Cost of debt; Option backdating; Trust

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Fotak, Veljko and Jiang, Feng and Lee, Haekwon and Lie, Erik, Trust and Debt Contracting: Evidence from the Backdating Scandal (November 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2802892 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2802892
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M Berlin , J Loeys
Bond covenants and delegated monitoring
Journal of Finance , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 397 - 412 Posted: 1988
Crossref
G Bernile , G Jarrell
The impact of the options backdating scandal on shareholders
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 47 , p. 2 - 26 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H Bessembinder , K M Kahle , W F Maxwell , D Xu
Measuring abnormal bond performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 10 , p. 4219 - 258 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Bharath , S Dahiya , A Saunders , A Srinivasan
Lending relationships and loan contract terms
Review of Financial Studies , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 1141 - 1203 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
397
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,128
RANK
170,079
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies