Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamics of CEO Disclosure Style

Khrystyna Bochkay, Roman Chychyla, and Dhananjay Nanda (2018) Dynamics of CEO Disclosure Style. The Accounting Review, July 2019

Posted: 2 Jul 2016 Last revised: 8 Nov 2019

Khrystyna Bochkay

University of Miami Herbert Business School

Roman Chychyla

University of Miami - School of Business Administration

Dhananjay Nanda

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 2, 2018

Abstract

We examine changes in CEOs' disclosure styles in quarterly earnings conference calls, over their tenure. Our longitudinal analysis of newly hired CEOs shows that CEOs' forward-looking disclosures and their disclosures' relative optimism decline in their tenure. Further, externally hired and inexperienced CEOs are more future-oriented and younger CEOs exhibit greater optimism in their disclosures. We also find that non-CEO executives' disclosure styles remain time-invariant over their CEO's tenure. Our evidence is consistent with uncertainty reduction about managers' ability over their tenure 1) reducing the demand for and the supply of forward-looking disclosures, and 2) attenuating managerial career concerns leading to the decline in disclosure optimism.

Keywords: CEO tenure, ability uncertainty, career concerns, communication style, forward-looking information, linguistic tone, earnings conference calls, textual analysis

JEL Classification: D82, D83, L20, M12, M51

Suggested Citation:

Bochkay, Khrystyna and Chychyla, Roman and Nanda, Dhananjay, Dynamics of CEO Disclosure Style (October 2, 2018). Khrystyna Bochkay, Roman Chychyla, and Dhananjay Nanda (2018) Dynamics of CEO Disclosure Style. The Accounting Review, July 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2802622 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2802622
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,697
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies