Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Severance Pay and Corporate Tax Planning

Journal of the American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

46 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2016 Last revised: 13 Aug 2019

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Jenny Guan

Monash University

Oliver Zhen Li

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Zhen Zheng

Xiamen University

Date Written: August 12, 2019

Abstract

We examine the association between CEO severance pay (i.e., payment a CEO would receive if s/he is involuntarily terminated) and corporate tax planning activities. We find that CEO severance pay is positively associated with corporate tax planning, consistent with CEO severance pay providing contractual protection against managers’ career concerns and thereby inducing otherwise risk-averse managers to engage in incremental levels of tax planning. This result holds under an instrumental variable approach and a propensity score matching, and survives alternative measures of CEO severance pay and corporate tax planning. Finally, we find that severance pay provides stronger tax planning incentives in situations where managers are expected to face greater career concerns – when they are less experienced, when they face stronger shareholder monitoring, and when they manage firms with higher idiosyncratic volatility. Overall, our results suggest that CEO severance pay represents a form of efficient contracting with otherwise risk-averse managers.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Avoidance; CEO Severance Pay; Risk-Taking Incentives

JEL Classification: M4, E62, M52

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Guan, Jenny and Li, Oliver Zhen and Zheng, Zhen, CEO Severance Pay and Corporate Tax Planning (August 12, 2019). Journal of the American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2802426 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2802426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: A theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
621
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,799
RANK
98,680
4 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies