Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whether and Where to Spend Mandatory CSR?

14 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2016

Dr Preet Deep Singh

Apna.Co

Sakina Poonawala

Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad

Date Written: June 30, 2016

Abstract

Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) was made mandatory under a 'comply or explain' approach by the Companies Act, 2013, applicable from year ending 2014. The Act also specifies various heads under which a company can spend. Using business school students, we conduct an experiment to examine two things (1) the impact of companies' choices regarding how much to spend, and (2) companies' choices regarding which head to spend under, on investor likelihood of investment. Our results show that investors neither value nor discount companies that spend more than the minimum amount on CSR and further that they are less likely to invest in companies that spend on incubation and they value such companies lower as compared to companies that spend on education or gender issues. Our results are in line with the empirical data pertaining to the amounts spent by companies.

Keywords: CSR, mandatory CSR, Investor Perception, Experiment

JEL Classification: G3, G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Preet Deep and Poonawala, Sakina, Whether and Where to Spend Mandatory CSR? (June 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2802866 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2802866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
C Act
New rules of the game'. A Deloitte and ASSOCHAM Report Posted: 2013
G Berens , C B Riel , G H Bruggen
Corporate associations and consumer product responses: The moderating role of corporate brand dominance
Journal of Marketing , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 35 - 48 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T J Brown , P A Dacin
The company and the product: Corporate associations and consumer product responses
The Journal of Marketing , p. 68 - 84 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Helen L. Brown-Liburd , Jeffrey R. Cohen , Valentina L. Zamora
CSR Disclosure Items Used as Fairness Heuristics in the Investment Decision
Brown-Liburd, H., Cohen, J. and Zamora, V.L., 2018. CSR disclosure items used as fairness heuristics in the investment decision. Journal of Business Ethics, 152(1), pp.275-289. Pages: 36 Posted: 16 Jan 2012 Last revised: 1 Oct 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,838
RANK
549,043
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies