Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity-Based Incentives and Shareholder Say-On-Pay

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Vol 46, 2019

Posted: 4 Jul 2016 Last revised: 11 Feb 2021

Denton Collins

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business

Blair B. Marquardt

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Xu Niu

James Madison University - College of Business

Date Written: December 12, 2018

Abstract

We study the relationship between CEO pay-performance sensitivity, pay-risk sensitivity, and shareholder voting outcomes as part of the "say-on-pay" provision of the 2010 U.S. Dodd-Frank Act. Consistent with our hypothesis, we provide evidence that shareholders tend to approve of compensation packages that are more sensitive to changes in stock price (pay-performance sensitivity). Our findings are consistent with theoretical predictions that outside owners approve of equity incentives as a means of aligning managers' interests with those of shareholders. We also document that future changes to equity-based incentives are related to voting outcomes and that shareholders incorporate CFO incentives into their votes. Collectively, these results provide evidence of the importance of equity-based incentives from the perspective of those most concerned with firm value and of the effectiveness of say-on-pay as a governance mechanism. Accepted by Journal of Business Finance and Accounting in January 2019.

Keywords: pay-performance sensitivity, pay-risk sensitivity, executive compensation, shareholder voting

JEL Classification: G34, G38, M48, M52

Suggested Citation:

Collins, Denton and Marquardt, Blair and Niu, Xu, Equity-Based Incentives and Shareholder Say-On-Pay (December 12, 2018). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Vol 46, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2803561
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,586
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies