Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trading Prior to the Disclosure of Material Information: Evidence from Regulation Fair Disclosure Form 8-Ks

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2016 Last revised: 6 Apr 2020

John L. Campbell

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

Brady J. Twedt

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Benjamin C. Whipple

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 3, 2020

Abstract

Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD) Form 8-K filings provide a venue where managers release information to the market as a whole that they designate as being material. Using this setting, we study trading patterns immediately prior to the public disclosure of material information. We offer three main results. First, using both intra-day and daily trading data, we find abnormal trading volume of 21 percent (13 percent) in the hour (day) prior to the public disclosure, respectively. Second, we find that this pre-disclosure abnormal trading volume is concentrated in firms that are smaller, have more growth opportunities, issue fewer voluntary disclosures, and have weaker external monitoring. Finally, we find that this pre-disclosure volume is concentrated in subsamples in which the information relates to a firm’s material contracts, a firm holds investor/analyst conferences, and there is insider trading activity in a firm’s shares. Our results do not concentrate in a small number of firms or industries, and do not appear to be explained by the form through which managers first release the material information (e.g., Form 8-K, press release, website posting, or social media). Our results are also robust to controlling for the firm’s other filings and peer filings that occur around the disclosure. Overall, the trading patterns we document may show that, inconsistent with the spirit of Reg FD, a subset of investors trade on information managers deem material prior to its broad, public release.

Keywords: Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD), Regulation Effectiveness, 8-Ks

Suggested Citation:

Campbell, John L. and Twedt, Brady J. and Whipple, Benjamin C., Trading Prior to the Disclosure of Material Information: Evidence from Regulation Fair Disclosure Form 8-Ks (April 3, 2020). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803308 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2803308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Kristian D. Allee , Brian J. Bushee , Tyler J. Kleppe , Andrew T. Pierce
Did the Siebel Systems Case Limit the SEC’s Ability to Enforce Regulation Fair Disclosure?
Pages: 81 Posted: 23 Aug 2019 Last revised: 3 Feb 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Baginski , J Campbell , L Hinson , D Koo
Do career concerns affect the delay of bad news disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2017
Crossref
W Bailey , H Li , C Mao , R Zhong
Regulation Fair Disclosure and earnings information: Market, analyst, and corporate responses
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 2487 - 2514 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L Bamber , O Barron , D Stevens
Trading volume around earnings announcements and other financial reports: Theory, research design, empirical evidence, and directions for future research
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , p. 431 - 471 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
16 Citations
Sudheer Chava , Nikhil Paradkar
December Doldrums, Investor Distraction, and the Stock Market Reaction to Unscheduled News Events
Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 17-25, Journal of Financial Markets (Forthcoming), 30th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2017 · 56 Pages · Posted: 20 Sep 2017 · Last revised: 31 May 2024 · Downloads: 692
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Han Wu , Yi Li , Ole-Kristian Hope , Qiliang Liu , Hong Cai
The (In)Visibility of Undisclosed Political Connections
62 Pages · Posted: 9 May 2019 · Last revised: 4 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 402
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kristian D. Allee , Brian J. Bushee , Tyler J. Kleppe , Andrew T. Pierce
Did the Siebel Systems Case Limit the SEC’s Ability to Enforce Regulation Fair Disclosure?
81 Pages · Posted: 23 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 3 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 527
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashiq Ali , Michael Thomas Durney , Jill E. Fisch , Hoyoun Kyung
Managers’ Private Communications with Analysts: The Effect of SEC v. Siebel Systems Inc.
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 635/2019, U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 20-46, · 59 Pages · Posted: 26 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 10 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 430
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
597
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,704
RANK
103,847
16 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies