Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Ex Ante Severance Pay Affect the Timeliness of Bad News Disclosure? The Role of Managerial Exit Costs

Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance

41 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2016 Last revised: 25 Aug 2020

Herita T. Akamah

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Bryan Brockbank

University of Oklahoma - School of Accounting

Sydney Qing Shu

Miami University of Ohio - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: March 23, 2020

Abstract

Extant literature documents a positive association between ex ante severance pay and timeliness of bad news disclosure, suggesting that the provision of severance pay is consistent with efficient contracting. Relying on an empirically unexplored theory, we investigate whether and how managerial exit costs (i.e., financial and non-financial losses triggered by employment termination) affect the effectiveness of severance pay in curbing bad news withholding. We find that managerial exit costs attenuate the positive association between severance pay and timely disclosure of bad news. Moreover, we document that severance pay does not prompt managers to reveal bad news when their exit costs are sufficiently high (i.e., in the top quartile). This result suggests that exit costs erode the efficacy of ex ante severance pay in curtailing bad news withholding. Overall, our findings support the notion that an “one-size-fits-all” approach to structuring severance agreements undermines the potential of severance pay to benefit investors.

Keywords: ex ante severance pay; disclosure timeliness; managerial exit costs; bad news disclosure; efficient contracting

Suggested Citation:

Akamah, Herita T. and Brockbank, Bryan and Shu, Sydney Qing, Does Ex Ante Severance Pay Affect the Timeliness of Bad News Disclosure? The Role of Managerial Exit Costs (March 23, 2020). Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2803677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A Almazan , J Suarez
Entrenchment and severance pay in optimal governance structures
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 519 - 547 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Altschuler , G Chen , J Zhou
Anticipation of management forecasts and analysts' private information search
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 803 - 838 Posted: 2015
Crossref
S P Baginski , J L Campbell , L A Hinson , D S Koo
Do career concerns affect the delay of bad news disclosure?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 2 , p. 61 - 95 Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Balsam , S Miharjo
The effect of equity compensation on voluntary executive turnover
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
959
RANK
682,509
1 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies