Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Local Tournament Incentives on Firms’ Performance, Risk-Taking Decisions, and Financial Reporting Decisions

71 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2016 Last revised: 17 Apr 2018

Matthew Ma

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting

Jing Pan

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Stephen Stubben

University of Utah

Date Written: November 1, 2017

Abstract

This study documents the existence of local employment preferences for corporate executives and examines how the compensation of executives’ local peers affects their own performance, risk-taking decisions, and financial reporting decisions. We find that external hires of new CEOs (CFOs) are five (eight) times more likely to be from local firms than non-local firms. We also find that local tournament incentives—as proxied by the pay gap between an executive and higher-paid executives in the area—are associated with stronger performance, greater risk taking, and more financial misreporting. We find consistent results using a difference-in-difference analysis that exploits plausibly exogenous variation in local tournament incentives caused by the sudden death of a local CEO. Our findings are consistent with executives taking actions to compete for a promotion to a nearby firm with higher pay. In addition, we find the effect of local tournament incentives is larger when local mobility is greater and executives’ local preferences are stronger.

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Matthew and Pan, Jing and Stubben, Stephen, The Effect of Local Tournament Incentives on Firms’ Performance, Risk-Taking Decisions, and Financial Reporting Decisions (November 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803054 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2803054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
P Hribar , Craig Nichols , D
The use of unsigned earnings quality measures in tests of earnings management
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , p. 1017 - 1053 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M R Huson , R Parrino , L T Starks
Internal monitoring mechanisms and CEO turnover: A long-term perspective
The Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 2265 - 2297 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Hvide
Tournament rewards and risk taking
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 20 , p. 877 - 898 Posted: 2002
Crossref
B A Jacob , S D Levitt
Rotten apples: An investigation of the prevalence and predictors of teacher cheating. Working paper Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
681
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,757
RANK
87,651
3 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies