Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Avoidance and Firm Value: Evidence from Brazil

20 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2016

Silvio Santana

University of São Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Amaury José Rezende

University of São Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Date Written: July 2, 2016

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between corporate tax avoidance and firm value in Brazil. Although one might expect that tax avoidance activities result in generation of shareholder value, Desai and Dharmapala (2009a) showed this is not always the case. Implicit agency costs, whose existence was recently detected by the literature, may exceed the benefits of tax savings, causing destruction of shareholder value instead. To check what happens in Brazil, we conduct a regression analysis of panel data comprising 310 publicly traded firms in years 2007 to 2012, summing up 1,432 firm-year observations. We adopt BTD, controlled for total accruals, as proxy for tax avoidance and Tobin’s q as proxy for firm value. Our results show that tax avoidance and firm value are negatively related in Brazil. We also evaluate the effect of corporate governance, finding evidence that it plays an important role in mitigating value destruction, as well as the effects of family management and ownership concentration.

Keywords: tax avoidance, tax planning, firm value, corporate governance

Suggested Citation:

Santana, Silvio and Rezende, Amaury José, Corporate Tax Avoidance and Firm Value: Evidence from Brazil (July 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2803993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Abdul Wahab , N S , K Holland
Tax planning, corporate governance and equity value
The British Accounting Review , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 124 Posted: 2012
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S Chen , X Chen , Q Cheng , T Shevlin
Are family firms more tax aggressive than non-family firms
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 95 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
X Chen , N Hu , X Wang , X Tang
Tax avoidance and firm value: evidence from China
Nankai Business Review International , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 42 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,145
RANK
41,896
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies