Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Financial Institution Failure in Nepal

Paper presented at “Uniglobe International Conference II: Contemporary Issues and Challenges in Management”, Kathmandu, Nepal March 10-12, 2014

9 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2016

Ghanendra Fago

Shanker Dev Campus, Tribhuvan University, Nepal

Date Written: November 27, 2014

Abstract

The main objective of this study is to assess financial ratios and their predictive classification ability to classify financially troubled and sound banking and finance companies of Nepal. On the basis of twenty sample banking and finance institutions (ten financially distressed and ten sound financial institutions during 2003-2012, this study concluded that ratios of total debts to total assets (TD/TA), cash flow to risk weighted assets (CF/RWA), market value to book value (MV/BV), price earning (P/E), non-performing assets to total loan (NPA/TL), return on assets (ROA), return on shareholders' equity (ROSE), other ratios are found insignificant between financially distressed and sound financial institutions. Using multivariate discriminant analysis (MDA) and logistic regression analysis, this study concluded that only two ratios: cash flow to risk weighted assets (CF/RWA) and market value to book value are most significant in prediction of financial institutions failure. It also concludes that the classes of financial institutions: bank or finance company is insignificant in financial institution failure.

Keywords: Financial institution failure, financial ratios, discriminant analysis, logistic analysis

Suggested Citation:

Fago, Ghanendra, Predicting Financial Institution Failure in Nepal (November 27, 2014). Paper presented at “Uniglobe International Conference II: Contemporary Issues and Challenges in Management”, Kathmandu, Nepal March 10-12, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2804848
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 610 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman , R G Haldeman , P Narayanan
ZETA Analysis: A model to identify bankruptcy risk of corporation
Journal of Banking and Finance , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977-06
Crossref
W H Beaver
Financial ratios as predictors of failures: Empirical research in accounting selected studies
The Journal of Accounting Research , issue 4 , p. 71 - 111 Posted: 1966
Marc Blum
Failing company discriminant analysis
The Journal of Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1974
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,229
RANK
545,411
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies