Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Consensus on Financial Analysis and Corporate Bankruptcy

Management Dynamics- A Journal on Management and Economics (2009). Vol.13(1)

7 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2016

Ghanendra Fago

Shanker Dev Campus, Tribhuvan University, Nepal

Date Written: March 1, 2009

Abstract

Financial analysis and the predictive power of financial ratios in failure prediction context has been well known subject in the literature of finance and accounting since 1960s. However, it has not been taken important issue in the developing counties like Nepal. Thus this study has attempted to assess the consensus on financial analysis and predictive ability of financial ratios on prediction of corporate bankruptcy on the basis of the opinions received from twenty two respondents including managers, chartered accountants and academicians. Based on respondents’ opinion, this study also showed that the main purposes of financial analysis among the respondents have been found paradoxical. While the default of payment of loans and high debt equity ratios are found as the main symptoms of corporate bankruptcy. Using weighted mean of respondents’ opinion, of the fifteen financial ratios, the ratios of LDSE, TDTA, CFTD, WCTA and QACL are found the five most powerful financial ratios as predictors of corporate bankruptcy respectively.

Keywords: Corporate Bankruptcy, Corporate Failure, Financial Distress, Financial Ratios, Predictive Power, Consensus etc.

Suggested Citation:

Fago, Ghanendra, A Consensus on Financial Analysis and Corporate Bankruptcy (March 1, 2009). Management Dynamics- A Journal on Management and Economics (2009). Vol.13(1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2804269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Edward I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Abdul Aziz , Gerald Lawson
Cash flow reporting and financial distress models: Testing of hypotheses
Journal of Financial Management , p. 55 - 63 Posted: 1989
Crossref
W H Beaver
Financial ratios as predictors of failures: Empirical research in accounting selected studies
Journal of Accounting Research , issue 4 , p. 71 - 127 Posted: 1966
Pamela K Coats , I Fant , Franklin
Recognizing financial distress patterns using a neural network tool
Financial Management , p. 142 - 155 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,226
RANK
545,411
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies