Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Don’t General Counsels Stop Corporate Crime?

Ross School of Business Paper No. 1326

46 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2016 Last revised: 17 Aug 2016

Sureyya Burcu Avci

Sabanci University - School of Management

H. Nejat Seyhun

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Date Written: July 3, 2016

Abstract

Corporate fraud is costly, involving hundreds of billions of dollars in lost reputational and out of pocket costs for stakeholders and hundreds of thousands of job losses for employees, suppliers and customers as well as loss of lives. To prevent fraud, general counsels (GCs) are charged as the gatekeepers for the corporation. They understand the law and they are expected to use their legal expertise to advise, intervene and report whenever they are suspicious of fraud. In spite of their legally-mandated central role, however, corporate counsels typically do not appear to discover any corporate wrongdoing. In this paper, we analyze the potential reasons why corporate counsels keep silent in the face of potential wrongdoing in their own firms and propose policy recommendations to better protect shareholders’ interests against self-dealing by top management.

Keywords: General Counsels, Corporate Governance, Corporate Fraud, Gatekeepers

JEL Classification: G34, G38, K22, K41, K42

Suggested Citation:

Avci, Sureyya Burcu and Seyhun, H. Nejat, Why Don’t General Counsels Stop Corporate Crime? (July 3, 2016). Ross School of Business Paper No. 1326, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2804352 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2804352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
E G See , Justin J Hopkins
Corporate General Counsel and Financial Reporting Quality. 61 MGMT. SCI , volume 129 Posted: 2015
Byungjin Kwak
The Composition of Top Management with General Counsel and Voluntary Information Disclosure, 54
J. ACCT. & ECON , volume 19 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Jayanthi Krishnan
Legal Expertise on Corporate Audit Committees and Financial Reporting Quality Posted: 2011
Crossref
Constance E Bagley
Winning Legally: The Value of Legal Astuteness, 33 ACAD
MGMT. REV , volume 378 , p. 386 - 87 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
503
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,580
RANK
128,733
3 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies