Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prediction of Corporate Failure in Nepal

2nd International Conference on "Reshaping Organizations to Develop Responsible Global Leadership held at Capital City of Nepal- Kathmandu, on 10-12 March 2013 organized Nepalese Academy of Management.

17 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2016

Ghanendra Fago

Shanker Dev Campus, Tribhuvan University, Nepal

Date Written: March 10, 2013

Abstract

This study has examined the usefulness of seventeen financial ratios in discrimination of failed companies and non-failed companies. Out of them, the ratios of current assets to total assets, current liabilities to total debt, shareholder's equity to total debts, current assets to net sales, net sales to total assets, net sales capital employed, earnings before interest and tax to total assets, net income to net sales, net income to total assets, cash flow to net sales and cash flow to current liabilities are statistically significant between failed companies and non-failed companies. It also concludes that failed companies use more debts. Liquidity, profitability, cash flow, and turnover ratios of failed companies are poorer than non-failed companies. Using multivariate discriminant analysis (MDA) as a technique of data analysis, it is concluded that MDA can classify failed and non-failed companies with 87.5% classification accuracy in one and three year, 91% accuracy in two year and 79% in four year prior to failure of a company. Only four financial ratios: current liabilities to total debts; net sales to total assets, earnings before interest and tax to interest and cash flow to earnings before interest and tax have been found statistically significant in multivariate discriminant model for predicting failed companies and non-failed companies. On the basis of standard coefficient, the ratio of current liabilities to total debts is found the most important ratio in discrimination of failed and non-failed companies followed by earnings before interest and tax to interest, net sales to total assets, and cash flow to earnings before interest and tax respectively.

Keywords: Corporate failure, financial ratios, discriminant analysis, classification accuracy, cut off point

Suggested Citation:

Fago, Ghanendra, Prediction of Corporate Failure in Nepal (March 10, 2013). 2nd International Conference on "Reshaping Organizations to Develop Responsible Global Leadership held at Capital City of Nepal- Kathmandu, on 10-12 March 2013 organized Nepalese Academy of Management. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2804406 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2804406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Edward I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
W Beaver
Alternative accounting measures as predictors of failure
Accounting review , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 170 - 192 Posted: 1968
W H Beaver
Financial ratios as predictors of failures: Empirical research in accounting selected studies
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 4 , p. 71 - 127 Posted: 1966
I S Dambolena , Khoury
Ratio stability and corporate failure
Journal of Finance , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 1017 - 1026 Posted: 1980
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,491
RANK
584,078
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies