Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tailoring in the Application of Regulatory Accounting Guidelines: Evidence from Community Banks

27 Pages Posted: 8 Jul 2016

Drew Dahl

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis

Andrew P. Meyer

Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Research Division

Michelle Neely

Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis

Date Written: July 6, 2016

Abstract

We examine the latitude that regulators provide to banks in how they manage loan loss allowances. Empirical tests on subsamples of 64,807 annual observations of banks, 2006 to 2015, show that correlations of provisions for loan losses and subsequent charge-offs, which are expected under regulatory guidelines, are weaker for smaller banks and that, further, the weaker correlations of smaller banks do not necessarily constrain them from achieving a given regulatory-assessed managerial performance rating. We consider this to be evidence of a “tailoring” in accounting oversight that is relevant to the enforcement of former, current and future standards established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.

Keywords: bank, accounting

JEL Classification: G21

Suggested Citation:

Dahl, Drew and Meyer, Andrew P. and Neely, Michelle, Tailoring in the Application of Regulatory Accounting Guidelines: Evidence from Community Banks (July 6, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805660 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2805660
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: evidence from banking
Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J Altamuro , A Beatty
How does internal control regulation affect financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , p. 58 - 74 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Armstrong , W Guay , H Mehran , J Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance: A review of the evidence and the implications for banking firms and the financial services industry. Working paper Posted: 2015
M Barth , D Israeli
Disentangling mandatory IFRS reporting and changes in enforcement
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 178 - 188 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,706
RANK
605,468
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies