Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Activism on Sustainability Issues

56 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2016 Last revised: 4 Sep 2016

Jody Grewal

Joseph L. Rotman School of Management - University of Toronto

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Aaron Yoon

Northwestern University - Department of Accounting Information & Management

Date Written: July 6, 2016

Abstract

Shareholder activism on sustainability issues has become increasingly prevalent over the years, with the number of proposals filed doubling from 1999 to 2013. We use recent innovations in accounting standard setting to classify 2,665 shareholder proposals that address environmental and social issues as financially material or immaterial, and we analyze how proposals on material versus immaterial issues are related to firms’ subsequent environmental or social performance and market valuation. We find that 42 percent of the shareholder proposals in our sample are filed on financially material issues. We document that filing shareholder proposals are related to subsequent improvements in the performance of the company on the focal environmental or social issue, even though such proposals nearly never received majority support. Improvements occur across both material and immaterial issues. Proposals on immaterial issues are associated with subsequent declines in firm valuation while proposals on material issues are associated with subsequent increases in firm value. We show that managers increase performance on immaterial issues in companies with agency problems, low awareness of the materiality of sustainability issues, and poor performance on material issues.

Keywords: sustainability, shareholder activism, corporate performance, corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: G3, M1, M2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Grewal, Jyothika and Serafeim, George and Yoon, Aaron, Shareholder Activism on Sustainability Issues (July 6, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2805512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
K Aupperle , A Carroll , J Hatfield
An empirical examination of the relationship between corporate social responsibility and profitability
Management Journal , volume 28 , p. 446 - 463 Posted: 1985
Crossref
B Barber
Monitoring the monitor: evaluating CalPERS activism
Journal of Investing , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 66 - 80 Posted: 2007
M Barnett , R Salomon
Beyond dichotomy: The curvilinear relationship between social responsibility and financial performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 27 , p. 1101 - 1122 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Diane Del Guercio , Laura S. Cole , Tracie Woidtke
Do Boards Pay Attention When Institutional Investor Activists 'Just Vote No'?
Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), vol 90, 84-103. Pages: 50 Posted: 12 Aug 2004 Last revised: 14 Jan 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,987
ABSTRACT VIEWS
24,697
RANK
3,074
70 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies