Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Strategy, Over- (Under-) Investment and Managerial Compensation

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 11 Jul 2016

Farshid Navissi

Monash University

V.G. Sridharan

Deakin University

Mehdi Khedmati

Monash University

Edwin Lim

Deakin University - Department of Accounting

Egor Evdokimov

Monash University

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This study examines whether and how business strategy influences a firm's over- and under-investment decisions. Prospector and defender strategies expose firms to different required levels of investment, monitoring, and managerial discretion which have implications for managerial investment decisions. Our results provide evidence that firms with an innovation-orientated prospector strategy are more likely to overinvest, whereas firms following an efficiency-orientated defender strategy are more likely to underinvest. These over- and under-investments are associated with poorer future firm performance. Moreover, the level of over- (under-) investment is exacerbated in the presence of more stock- (cash-) based compensation in prospector (defender) firms. Our results are robust to a number of checks such as ordered logit analysis, individual components of business strategy, individual components of investment, year-by-year and industry-by-industry analysis, controlling for lagged investment residuals, controlling for firm fixed-effect, first-differenced specification, and propensity score matching.

Keywords: Business Strategy, Over-investment, Under-investment, Managerial Compensation

Suggested Citation:

Navissi, Farshid and Sridharan, V.G. and Khedmati, Mehdi and Lim, Edwin and Evdokimov, Egor, Business Strategy, Over- (Under-) Investment and Managerial Compensation (2016). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2806967
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,798
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies