Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Distance Impede Regulatory Monitoring? Evidence from the Banking Industry

44 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2017

Ivan Lim

Durham University

Jens Hagendorff

King’s College London - King's Business School

Seth Armitage

University of Edinburgh - Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 12, 2016

Abstract

We examine how the information environment influences bank regulatory monitoring. Using the distance between banks and regulatory field offices as a proxy for information asymmetry, we show that an increase in distance reduces the quality of financial reporting. To establish causality, we use a quasi-natural experiment that exploits multiple exogenous shocks to distance, an instrumental variable approach as well as the enactment of the FDICIA Act of 1991 as a shock to the information environment. We provide evidence that regulators make use of local informational advantages to enforce better quality financial reporting. We further show that despite informational advantages, regulators choose when to increase regulatory scrutiny and chose not to do so during the financial crisis. Overall, our study underscores the importance of local information in regulatory monitoring.

Suggested Citation:

Lim, Ivan and Hagendorff, Jens and Armitage, Seth, Does Distance Impede Regulatory Monitoring? Evidence from the Banking Industry (October 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2807421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2807421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,713
RANK
213,039
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies