Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Motivations for Reporting Organizational Misconduct by Professional Bystanders

Law and Society Association Annual meeting (2016), New Orleans

25 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2016

Judith van Erp

Utrecht University - Utrecht School of Governance

Kim Loyens

Utrecht University

Date Written: June 01, 2016

Abstract

The vast majority of business offenses, whether systematic and serious or small and relatively harmless, remains undetected by public regulatory authorities. Yet, they are often witnessed in some form by employees, local residents, customers, competitors, accomplices or other parties. Reporting these signals to authorities can provide valuable information to regulatory agencies’ own detection and investigation activities, and thus contribute to more efficient and effective enforcement. Although an extensive scholarship exists on reporting, it has mainly focused on whistle-blowers: insiders who are directly part of or involved in the offending behaviour. This study focuses on one type of external witnesses, namely bystanders who maintain a professional relationship with a company. These could include suppliers, customers, and competitors. These parties distinguish themselves from whistleblowers in the sense that although they sustain a close relation with a (suspected) offending business, they are not directly part of the organization, let alone do they take part in the offense. Therefore, the name ‘bellringers’ has been suggested for this category. Building on the existing literature about whistleblowing and bell-ringing, this paper asks what motivates ‘bellringers’ to report suspected business violations to enforcement authorities, and how they experience the reporting process. To answer this question, an extensive empirical study was carried out of more than 350 reports of offenses at three inspectorates in the Netherlands, and 60 interviews with reporting business owners and representatives of business sector organizations and inspectorates.

Keywords: whistle blowing, detection, inspectorates, bystanders

Suggested Citation:

Erp, Judith van and Loyens, Kim, Motivations for Reporting Organizational Misconduct by Professional Bystanders (June 01, 2016). Law and Society Association Annual meeting (2016), New Orleans, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2807505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2807505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
I Ayres , J Braithwaite
Responsive regulation: Transcending the deregulation debate Posted: 1992
R Bouwman , M Bonhoff , P Robben , R Friele
Patients' perspectives on the role of their complaints in the regulatory process
Health Expectations , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
Crossref
G Brewer , S Selden
Whistle blowers in the federal civil service: New evidence of the public service ethic
Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 413 - 439 Posted: 1998
Crossref
C Chen , C Lai
To blow or not to blow the whistle: The effects of potential harm, social pressure and organisational commitment on whistleblowing intention and behaviour
Business Ethics: A European Review , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 327 - 342 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,556
RANK
490,025
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies