Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relative Performance Benchmarks: Do Boards Follow the Informativeness Principle?

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 17-039

52 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2016 Last revised: 11 Oct 2018

Paul Ma

University of Minnesota

Jee-Eun Shin

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Charles C. Y. Wang

Harvard University - Business School (HBS); Harvard University - Accounting & Control Unit; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 4, 2018

Abstract

We examine whether and to what extent managers are evaluated, in their relative performance contracts, on the basis of systematic performance. Focusing on relative total shareholder returns (rTSR), the predominant metric specified in these contracts and used by market participants to evaluate managers, we document that 60% of firms—those that choose specific peers—do a remarkable job of capturing the systematic component of returns in adherence to the informativeness principle. However, 40% of firms—those that choose index-based benchmarks—retain substantial systematic noise in their rTSR metrics, which they could have substantially corrected by using their self-chosen compensation-benchmarking peers. The selection of noisy benchmarks is economically important, is associated with lower ROA, and can be explained by compensation consultants’ tendencies and firms’ governance weaknesses.

Keywords: Executive compensation; relative performance evaluation; relative TSR; common shock filtration; systematic risk; search-based peers; board of directors; corporate governance; compensation consultants

JEL Classification: G30, J33, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Paul and Shin, Jee-Eun and Wang, Charles C. Y., Relative Performance Benchmarks: Do Boards Follow the Informativeness Principle? (October 4, 2018). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 17-039, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2807655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2807655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
R K Aggarwal , A A Samwick
Executive compensation, strategic competition, and relative performance evaluation: Theory and evidence
Journal of Political Economy , volume 54 , issue 6 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A M Albuquerque
Do growth-option firms use less relative performance evaluation? The Accounting Review , volume 89 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The limitations of industry concentration measures constructed with compustat data: Implications for finance research
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 10 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,091
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,250
RANK
46,264
5 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies