Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Changes as a Signal: Contextualizing the Performance Link

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 323/2016

Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 496

53 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2016 Last revised: 24 Sep 2016

Merritt B. Fox

Columbia University - Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Ronald J. Gilson

Stanford Law School; Columbia Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Stanford Law School

Darius Palia

Rutgers University, Newark, School of Business-Newark, Department of Finance & Economics; Columbia University - Law School

Date Written: November 2016

Abstract

Promoting “good” corporate governance has become an important concern. One result has been the creation of indexes that purport to measure the quality of a firm’s corporate governance structure. Prior scholarship reports a positive relationship between firms with good corporate governance index ratings and stock-price-based measures of a firm’s ability to create share value, such as Tobin’s Q. Little work, however, explores why we observe this relationship.

We hypothesize one reason for the relationship is that a rating-altering change in corporate governance structure can be a signal concerning the quality of a firm’s management. Changes in governance structures that result in better ratings tend to make a firm’s management more vulnerable to a hostile takeover, or give independent directors or activist shareholders more voice. These effects impose lower costs on high quality managers, who have less to fear, than on poor quality ones. The willingness of a firm’s managers to make such a change thus signals that they are high quality. This positive signal leads to a share price improvement and hence a higher Tobin’s Q.

Our hypothesis suggests that this signal would be particularly strong in a period where there was unusually high uncertainty about the quality of firm managers. We focus on 2001-2002, a period of an unprecedented cascade of corporate accounting scandals, including Enron and WorldCom. This led to reduced confidence in the accounting of all the other firms in the market. Using a fixed effect regression technique, we compare the change in Tobin’s Q for firms that engaged in rating-altering governance changes during this 2001-2002 period with the parallel change in Q for firms making such changes in the years surrounding the accounting scandal period (1992-2000 and 2003-2006). Consistent with our hypothesis, we find that an improved governance index score in the accounting scandal years is associated with a much larger increase in Tobin’s Q than a comparably sized rating improvement occurring in the surrounding years. We empirically rule out that this finding is solely the result of one or both of the finding’s two most likely alternative explanations. One is that having a structure with a higher rating leads over time to a firm having higher quality managers, and that higher quality managers are particularly appreciated in crisis times. A second is that managers, regardless of quality, are better motivated and informed when operating under a more highly rated governance structure, and that these drivers of better performance are particularly valuable in crisis times. Using an OLS regression technique, we compare the cross-sectional relationship between the sample firms’ governance ratings and their Tobin’s Qs for 2001-2002 with the parallel relationship in the years surrounding the accounting scandal period (1992-2000 and 2003-2006). There was no significant difference between the crisis years and the ordinary ones. In other words, in contrast to firms that changed their governance structures in the 2001-2002 period, for firms that did not change, there was no difference between 2001-2002 and other times in the strength of impact on Tobin’s Q from having a good rating versus a bad one.

By enhancing share price accuracy, reducing the asymmetry of information between the market and corporate insiders concerning the quality of management enhances the efficiency of the economy. Our results show how the signaling activities of private actors can help in this regard. They also suggest how sharply asymmetries about management quality can grow if regulatory and gatekeeper failures allow a substantial number of accounting frauds to develop.

Suggested Citation:

Fox, Merritt B. and Gilson, Ronald J. and Palia, Darius, Corporate Governance Changes as a Signal: Contextualizing the Performance Link (November 2016). European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 323/2016, Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 496, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2807926 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2807926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
The outlays for capital assets are ultimately counted against revenue, but this is done in future periods in the form of deductions for depreciation that are spread over the useful life of the asset , p. 63 - 64
&amp; Lyke , Jickling
Crossref
Beresford
, p. 11 - 12
Crossref
Wilmarth
Load more
2 Citations
Ewa Miklaszewska , Krzysztof Kil
The Business of Banking
, p. 109 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Ewa Miklaszewska , Krzysztof Kil
Zarządzanie ryzykiem reputacyjnym – problemy definicji i pomiaru
Problemy Zarzadzania , volume 15 , issue 1 (66) , p. 79 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,537
RANK
146,772
2 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Law School, John M. Olin Program in Law & Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies