Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Geographic Spillovers and Corporate Decisions

33 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2016

John E. Core

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Inna Abramova

London Business School

Rodrigo S. Verdi

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: July 8, 2016

Abstract

We investigate the association between geographic spillovers and corporate investment and accruals decisions. We hypothesize that if geographic areas differ by the degree of information sharing among local people, then the quality of managerial decisions can be affected by higher information flow in high-spillover areas. We construct a measure of geographic spillover intensity based on distances among firms in a metropolitan statistical area and test whether geographic spillovers are related to (1) the similarity and (2) the quality of corporate decisions. The findings indicate that in high-spillover areas, managers’ investment and accruals decisions are more similar and have better quality than in low-spillover areas. Our findings contribute to a growing literature on the role of geographic information flow and its effect on corporate outcomes.

Keywords: geographic spillovers, investment, accruals, similarity, quality, corporate policy, density, metropolitan area

Suggested Citation:

Core, John E. and Abramova, Inna and Verdi, Rodrigo S., Geographic Spillovers and Corporate Decisions (July 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2807477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2807477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
525
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,024
RANK
122,222
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies