Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reducing Agency Conflict through Bank Dividend Payout Decisions: The Role of Opacity and Ownership Structure

47 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2016

Laetitia Lepetit

University of Limoges - Laboratoire d'Analyse et de Prospectives Économiques (LAPE)

Céline Meslier

Universite de Limoges, LAPE

Leo Wardhana

Universitas Gadjah Mada

Date Written: July 13, 2016

Abstract

We empirically examine whether banks’ dividend decisions are influenced by their degree of opacity and ownership structure. We find that banks with concentrated ownership structure pay lower dividends when they have high degrees of opacity, in line with the hypothesis that majority shareholders pay lower dividends to extract higher levels of private benefits. We do not observe such opportunist behavior for widely held banks. These results suggest that there exist other corporate mechanisms in widely held banks that can induce insiders to select payout policies that reduce agency conflict in a context of high degrees of opacity. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of these mechanisms is reduced in banks with controlling shareholders. Further analysis shows that higher levels of shareholder protection and stronger supervisory regimes help to constrain opportunistic behavior of majority shareholders. Our findings have critical policy implications for the Basel 3 implementation of restrictions on dividend payouts.

Keywords: Bank, Dividend, Opacity, Ownership Concentration

JEL Classification: G21, G35

Suggested Citation:

Lepetit, Laetitia and Meslier, Celine and Wardhana, Leo, Reducing Agency Conflict through Bank Dividend Payout Decisions: The Role of Opacity and Ownership Structure (July 13, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2808998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2808998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
J F Abreu , M A Gulamhussen
Dividend Payouts: Evidence from U.S. Bank Holding Companies in the Context of the Financial Crisis
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 22 , p. 54 - 65 Posted: 2013
Crossref
V V Acharya , N Kulkarni , I Gujral , H S Shin
Dividends and Bank Capital in the Financial Crisis of Posted: 2007
Crossref
V V Acharya , H T Le , H S Shin
Bank Capital and Dividend Externalities Posted: 2013
Crossref
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank Loan Loss Provisions: A Reexamination of Capital Management, Earnings Management and Signaling Effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,011
RANK
429,664
6 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies