Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Young and the Restless: A Study of Age and Acquisition Propensity of CEOs of U.K. Firms

Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Jul 2016

Tim Zhang

University of Texas at San Antonio - Alvarez College of Business

Sanjiv Sabherwal

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Finance and Real Estate

Narayanan Jayaraman

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Stephen P. Ferris

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Date Written: July 11, 2016

Abstract

Using a large sample of CEOs of U.K. firms, we show that CEO age is a key determinant of acquisition activity. We find that younger CEOs are more likely to acquire another firm and spend more on large capital expenditures. We argue that while younger CEOs of both U.K. and U.S. firms undertake more acquisitions than their older peers, their motivations for acquisitions might differ. We find that the stock market perceives acquisitions by younger CEOs to be of a higher quality. Following previous studies, we use CEO tenure as a proxy for reputation, and find that large acquisitions enhance CEO reputation, especially for younger CEOs. In contrast to the previous findings for CEOs of U.S. firms, we determine that the compensation of CEOs in the U.K. does not increase after acquisitions. This absence of a compensation incentive for CEOs of U.K. firms is consistent with the idea that the U.K. compensation structure is more restrictive and has a smaller equity-based component. Our evidence is also inconsistent with an overconfidence effect. Overall, our results provide consistent evidence of executive signaling by younger CEOs of U.K. firms eager to distinguish themselves.

Keywords: CEO, age, merger, acquisition, signaling, compensation

JEL Classification: G3, G34

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Tim and Sabherwal, Sanjiv and Jayaraman, Narayanan and Ferris, Stephen P., The Young and the Restless: A Study of Age and Acquisition Propensity of CEOs of U.K. Firms (July 11, 2016). Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2808138
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,272
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies