Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integration of Internal Control and Financial Statement Audits: Are Two Audits Better than One?

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-58

58 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2016 Last revised: 9 May 2018

Lori Shefchik Bhaskar

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Marcy L. Shepardson

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 26, 2018

Abstract

The quality of financial statement (FS) audits integrated with audits of internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR) depends upon the quality of ICFR information used in, and its integration into, FS audits. Recent research and PCAOB inspections find auditors underreport existing ICFR weaknesses and perform insufficient testing to address identified risks, suggesting integrated audits – in which substantial ICFR testing is required – may result in lower FS-audit quality than similar FS-only audits. We compare a 2007 – 2013 sample of small, U.S. public company firm-years receiving integrated audits (accelerated filers) to firm-years receiving FS-only audits (non-accelerated filers) and find integrated audits are associated with higher likelihood of material misstatements and discretionary accruals, consistent with lower FS audit quality. We also find evidence of (1) auditor judgment-based integration issues and (2) low-quality ICFR audits harming FS audit quality. Overall, results suggest an important potential consequence of integrated audits is lower FS audit quality.

Keywords: Risk Assessment, Audit Methodology, PCAOB Standards, SOX, Internal Controls, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Bhaskar, Lori Shefchik and Schroeder, Joseph H. and Shepardson, Marcy L., Integration of Internal Control and Financial Statement Audits: Are Two Audits Better than One? (April 26, 2018). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-58, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2809680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2809680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A Acito , C Hogan , A Imdieke
Integrated Auditing Standards and Financial Reporting Quality. Working paper Posted: 2015
A Akresh
A Risk Model to
Opine on Internal Control. Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , p. 65 - 78 Posted: 2010
R Allen , D Hermanson , T Kozloski , R Ramsay
Auditor Risk Assessment: Insights from the Academic Literature
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , p. 157 - 177 Posted: 2006
Crossref
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2015. Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
920
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,258
RANK
58,837
32 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies