Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rethinking Financial Reporting: Standards, Norms and Institutions

Foundations and Trends® in Accounting, Vol. 11, Nos. 1-2 (2016) 1-113

134 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2016 Last revised: 27 Sep 2016

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: September 6, 2016

Abstract

Since the passage of the US federal securities laws more than eight decades ago, much regulatory effort has been devoted to improving financial reporting in business, government and not-for-profit organizations. Yet, evidence on improvements or abatement of misreporting by error or intent remains scarce. In the context of this experience, it may be useful to explore what we might mean by better financial reporting, and how we might define and implement processes to move in that direction. A broad agreement on the way ahead seems necessary to make progress.

Creating and sustaining institutions that follow a stable and conservative process for gradually adjusting the prevailing practices toward any long-term shifts may help evolve a better financial reporting environment. This approach departs from the tendency to issue new rules, often disregarding the lessons of practice that has created much confusion and failures in financial reporting over the past half-a-century. The eagerness to deal with transaction innovations through new pronouncements ends up fueling the cycle of more innovations, misrepresentations and abuse. The enormous resources and attention devoted to written rules have been accompanied by waning professional responsibility for good judgment and regard for practice and practicality. This work argues for targeting a better balance between top-down written rules and emergent social norms as reflected in business and accounting practice through restraining activist institutions of accounting. Suggestions from exploration of whether and how better social norms can be engineered are only preliminary at this time.

Keywords: improved financial reporting, institutions, social norms, regulatory arms race

JEL Classification: G18, G28, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Rethinking Financial Reporting: Standards, Norms and Institutions (September 6, 2016). Foundations and Trends® in Accounting, Vol. 11, Nos. 1-2 (2016) 1-113, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2809719 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2809719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
171 References
A Abdel-Khalik , Rashad
How Enron Used Accounting for Prepaid Commodity Swaps to Delay Bankruptcy for One Decade: The Untold Story Posted: 2016-01-27
Crossref
George A Ackerlof
The Market for 'Lemons: Quality, Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970-08
Crossref
Audits of Corporate Accounts , p. 1932 - 1966
Report of the Special Committee on Financial Reporting (The Jenkins Committee Report) Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
528
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,609
RANK
121,386
5 Citations
171 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies