Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Earnings Smoothing Management Philosophy of BHCs in the SFAS - 133 Framework

Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 5, No. 3, 2016

13 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2016

Veliota Drakopoulou

Ashford University

Date Written: July 13, 2016

Abstract

Purpose- The main purpose of this paper is to examine whether or not Bank Holding Companies (BHCs) took advantage of SFAS’s 133 differential treatment of the changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges to smooth earnings.

Design/methodology/approach- The author used a causal-comparative research design featuring an investigation on the Income Smoothing effects of BHCs’ corporate use of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and discretionary accruals one year after the 2008 amendment of SFAS 133.

Findings- The results of this research showed that SFAS133-Accounting Hedgers had smoother earnings than SFAS133-Compliant Hedgers due to derivative use but did not take advantage of the differential treatment of cash flow hedges to manipulate earnings. This study suggests that hedge accounting rules under SFAS 133 fully determined the hedging behavior of SFAS-Accounting Hedgers. To ascertain the implementation of effective hedges SFAS-Accounting Hedgers captured the benefits of hedge accounting while compromised the economic benefits of hedging in an attempt to manage any associated accounting volatility and smooth earnings.

Research limitations/implications- This study extends prior research on corporate risk management activities of BHCs and impacts social change by presenting new evidence on the effects of SFAS 133 cash-flow hedges on earnings smoothing.

Practical implications- The evidence suggests that corporate governance mechanisms affect earnings management since BHCs withhold discretion with respect to the realization of gains and losses from derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges. This is an indication that BHCs with an intent to achieve smoother earnings as a leading corporate risk management strategy, have a comparative advantage compared to non-financial institutions to apply hedge accounting since they regularly use derivatives and are more experienced with the implementation of SFAS 133.

Originality/value- Although prior studies typically considered derivatives and accruals as substitute proxies in managing reported earnings, the paper’s results suggest that the most significant determinant of earnings smoothing is derivative use for SFAS-Accounting Hedgers and information asymmetry for SFAS133-Compliant Hedgers.

Keywords: Derivatives, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities, Economic Hedges, Fair Value Hedges, Cash Flow Hedges, SFAS 133, Corporate Risk Management, Earnings Volatility, Earnings Smoothing

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Drakopoulou, Veliota, The Earnings Smoothing Management Philosophy of BHCs in the SFAS - 133 Framework (July 13, 2016). Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 5, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2809192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Ronnie Barnes
Accounting for Derivatives and Corporate Risk Management Policies
London Business School Accounting Subject Area No. 018 Pages: 57 Posted: 23 Jan 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Bedendoa , B Bruno
Credit Risk Transfer Practices in US Commercial Banks Posted: 2009
E Brewer , A B Minton , T J Moser
Interest rate derivatives and bank lending
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 41 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
G Brown
Managing foreign exchange risk with derivatives
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 60 , p. 49 - 55 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,265
RANK
697,608
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies