Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Disclosure Quality on Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: Evidence from Companies in Indonesia

International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, Vol. 6 (S4), Pp. 118-125, July 2016

13 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2016

Citrawati Jatiningrum

Institut Bakti Nusantara; STMIK Pringsewu

Mohamad Abdul-Hamid

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: July 5, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between corporate governance and earnings management with disclosure quality as a moderating variable in the scenario of highly concentrated ownership and less protected investors. The data obtain from listed Indonesian manufacturing companies using Moderated Regression Analysis (MRA) method complete the analysis of the interaction effects. The results reveal a significant effect of disclosure quality on the relationship between corporate governance mechanisms and earnings management. This study shows that disclosure quality and good corporate governance can reduce earnings management manipulation. The results are expected to contribute significantly to the existing knowledge on the concentrated ownership among companies on corporate governance, disclosure quality, and earnings management. Also, the findings will assist policy makers and regulators to facilitate directions for manufacturing sector and their operations in the future.

Keywords: Disclosure Quality, Corporate Governance, Earnings Management, Developing Country

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Jatiningrum, Citrawati and Abdul-Hamid, Mohamad and Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson, The Impact of Disclosure Quality on Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: Evidence from Companies in Indonesia (July 5, 2016). International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, Vol. 6 (S4), Pp. 118-125, July 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2810769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
M Aksu , A Kosedag
Transparency and Disclosure Scores and their Determinants in the Istanbul Stock Exchange
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 277 - 296 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Ali Shah , S Z Butt , S A Hassan , A
Corporate governance and earnings management: empirical evidence from Pakistani listed companies
European Journal of Scientific Research , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 624 - 638 Posted: 2009
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
N Amoozesh , Z Moeinfar , Z Mousavi
Evaluation of Relationship Between Disclosure Quality and Corporate Governance Quality In Tehran Stock Exchange
Journal of Marketing and Business Research , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 16 - 22 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
541
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,567
RANK
117,753
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies