Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Stock Options Overcome Managerial Risk Aversion? Evidence from Exercises of Executive Stock Options

Management Science, Forthcoming

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-59

43 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2016

Randall A. Heron

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Erik Lie

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: February 15, 2016

Abstract

We report that the probability that executives exercise options early decreases with the volatility of the underlying stock return. We interpret this to mean that executives’ subjective option value increases with volatility and that option grants increase executives’ risk appetite. Further decomposition reveals that the results are most pronounced for idiosyncratic volatility, consistent with our conjecture that executives believe they can better predict or influence the resolution of idiosyncratic uncertainty than systematic uncertainty, and, thus, favor the former.

Keywords: finance, corporate finance, management, executive compensation

JEL Classification: G30, J33, M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Heron, Randall A. and Lie, Erik, Do Stock Options Overcome Managerial Risk Aversion? Evidence from Exercises of Executive Stock Options (February 15, 2016). Management Science, Forthcoming, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-59, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2810289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A Agrawal , G Mandelker
Managerial incentives and corporate investment and financing decisions
Journal of Finance , volume 42 , p. 823 - 837 Posted: 1987
Crossref
C S Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P G Berger , E Ofek , D L Yermack
Managerial entrenchment and capital structure decisions
Journal of Finance , volume 52 , p. 1411 - 1438 Posted: 1997
Crossref
C Bettis , J Bizjak , J Coles , S Kalpathy
Stock and option grants with performance-based vesting provisions
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 3849 - 3888 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,709
RANK
342,507
5 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies