Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Forward-Looking Disclosures of Corporate Managers: Theory and Evidence

SAFE Working Paper No. 140

47 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2016

Reint Gropp

Halle Institute for Economic Research

Raša Karapandža

EBS Universität für Wirtschaft und Recht - EBS Business School - Department of Finance and Accounting; New York University (NYU) - New York University, Abu Dhabi

Julian Opferkuch

Goethe University Frankfurt, Students

Date Written: July 15, 2016

Abstract

We consider an infinitely repeated game in which a privately informed, long-lived manager raises funds from short-lived investors in order to finance a project. The manager can signal project quality to investors by making a (possibly costly) forward-looking disclosure about her project’s potential for success. We find that if the manager’s disclosures are costly, she will never release forward-looking statements that do not convey information to external investors. Furthermore, managers of firms that are transparent and face significant disclosure-related costs will refrain from forward-looking disclosures. In contrast, managers of opaque and profitable firms will follow a policy of accurate disclosures. To test our findings empirically, we devise an index that captures the quantity of forward-looking disclosures in public firms’ 10-K reports, and relate it to multiple firm characteristics. For opaque firms, our index is positively correlated with a firm’s profitability and financing needs. For transparent firms, there is only a weak relation between our index and firm fundamentals. Furthermore, the overall level of forward-looking disclosures declined significantly between 2001 and 2009, possibly as a result of the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

Keywords: Repeated Games, Asymmetric Information, Firms, Reputation

JEL Classification: C73, D82, G30, L14

Suggested Citation:

Gropp, Reint and Karapandža, Raša and Opferkuch, Julian, The Forward-Looking Disclosures of Corporate Managers: Theory and Evidence (July 15, 2016). SAFE Working Paper No. 140, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2810202 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2810202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
H Almeida , M Campello , B Laranjeira , S Weisbenner
Corporate Debt Maturity and the Real Effects of the 2007 Credit Crisis
Critical Finance Review , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 58 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Arping , Z Sautner
Did SOX Section 404 Make Firms Less Opaque? Evidence from Cross-Listed Firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 1133 - 1165 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Barry , S Brown
Differential Information and Security Market Equilibrium
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 407 - 422 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Benabou , G Laroque
Using Privileged Information to Manipulate Markets: Insiders, Gurus, and Credibility
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 107 , issue 3 , p. 921 - 958 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,426
RANK
301,058
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies