Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Agency Conflict Types I and II on Earnings Management

International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, Vol. 6 (S4), Pp. 126-132, July 2016

10 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2016

Vince Ratnawati Marbun

University of Riau

Mohamad Abdul-Hamid

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy

Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson Popoola

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: July 5, 2016

Abstract

This study examined the influence of agency conflict Type I (as represented by managerial ownership and institutional ownership), and agency conflict Type II (as represented by Control Rights, Cash Flow Rights, Cash Flow Rights leverage) on earnings management. A model was developed and tested using a sample of 108 pyramidal structure companies listed on Indonesian Stock Exchange from 2008 to 2012. Data were collected and analysed using least square regression model. The result showed that there is a significant association between managerial ownership and Control Rights. However, Control Rights (in agency conflict Type II) have the greatest influence on earnings management. Consequently, Type II agency conflict have the largest influence on earnings management compared to Type I agency conflict. The significance of the study is the potentials to assist the institutions and investors know the actual company performance and provides a better understanding of the agency theory more broadly vis-a-vis the relative impacts of Type I and Type II agency conflicts.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Agency Conflict Type I and Type II, Developing Nation

JEL Classification: G32, G23, M410

Suggested Citation:

Marbun, Vince Ratnawati and Abdul-Hamid, Mohamad and Popoola, Oluwatoyin Muse Johnson, The Influence of Agency Conflict Types I and II on Earnings Management (July 5, 2016). International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues, Vol. 6 (S4), Pp. 126-132, July 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2810752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Agrawal , C R Knouber
Firm performance and mechanism to control agency problem between manager and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Agrawal , G N Mandelker
Large Shareholders and the Monitoring of Managers: The Case of Antitakeover Charter Amendments
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 161 Posted: 1990
Crossref
F Allen , A E Bernardo , I Welch
A theory of dividends based on tax clienteles
The Journal of Finance , volume 15 , issue 6 , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
Crossref
E S S Alzoubi
Ownership structure and earnings management: evidence from Jordan
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 135 - 161 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
978
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,915
RANK
53,992
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies