Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Pay and Performance: The Moderating Effect of CEO Power and Governance Structure

International Journal of Human Resource Management (2016)

48 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2016

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Sarah Lindop

Aberystwyth University

Dennis A. Thomas

Aberystwyth University

Hussein A. Abdou

Northumbria University; Department of Management, Faculty of Commerce, Mansoura University

Kwaku K. Opong

University of Glasgow - Adam Smith Business School

Date Written: July 17, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the crucial question of whether chief executive officer (CEO) power and corporate governance (CG) structure can moderate the pay-for-performance sensitivity (PPS) using a large up-to-date South African dataset. Our findings are three-fold. First, when direct links between executive pay and performance are examined, we find a positive, but relatively small PPS. Second, our results show that in a context of concentrated ownership and weak board structures; the second-tier agency conflict (director monitoring power and opportunism) is stronger than the first-tier agency problem (CEO power and self-interest). Third, additional analysis suggests that CEO power and CG structure have a moderating effect on the PPS. Specifically, we find that the PPS is higher in firms with more reputable, founding and shareholding CEOs, higher ownership by directors and institutions, and independent nomination and remuneration committees, but lower in firms with larger boards, more powerful, and long-tenured CEOs. Overall, our evidence sheds new important theoretical and empirical insights on explaining the PPS with specific focus on the predictions of the optimal contracting and managerial power hypotheses. The findings are generally robust across a raft of econometric models that control for different types of endogeneities, pay, and performance proxies.

Keywords: executive pay, corporate performance, corporate governance, CEO power, endogeneity, South Africa

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Ntim, Collins G. and Lindop, Sarah and Thomas, Dennis A. and Abdou, Hussein A. and Opong, Kwaku K., Executive Pay and Performance: The Moderating Effect of CEO Power and Governance Structure (July 17, 2016). International Journal of Human Resource Management (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2810737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
W M Al-Bassam , C G Ntim
The Effect of Islamic values on voluntary corporate governance disclosure: The case of Saudi listed firms
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research. Forthcoming Posted: 2016
Crossref
W M Al-Bassam , C G Ntim , K K Opong , Y Downs
Corporate boards and ownership structure as antecedents of corporate governance disclosure in Saudi Arabian publicly listed corporations Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Alman , J C Hartzell , L T Starks
Active institutional shareholders and costs of monitoring: Evidence from executive compensation
Financial Management , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 5 - 34 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P O Angel , V S Fumas
The compensation of Spanish executives: A test of a managerial talent model
International Journal of Industrial Organization , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 511 - 531 Posted: 1997
Load more
3 Citations
Faizul Haque , Collins G. Ntim
Executive Compensation, Sustainable Compensation Policy, Carbon Performance and Market Value
British Journal of Management, Forthcoming · 42 Pages · Posted: 21 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 605
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ejaz Aslam , Razali Haron , Muhammad Naveed Tahir
How Director Remuneration Impacts Firm Performance: An Empirical Analysis of Executive Director Remuneration in Pakistan
Borsa Istanbul Review, Vol 19(2), 186-196, 2019 · 11 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 137
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yasir Shahab , Collins G. Ntim , Farid Ullah , Yugang Chen , Zhiwei Ye
CEO Power and Stock Price Crash Risk in China: Do Female Directors’ Critical Mass and Ownership Structure Matter?
Shahab, Y., Ntim, C.G., Ullah, F., Yugang, C., & Ye, Z. (2020). CEO power and stock price crash risk in China: Do female directors’ critical mass and ownership structure matter? International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., · 57 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Last revised: 19 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 207
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,024
RANK
312,896
3 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies