Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Price Crash Risk: Review of the Empirical Literature

Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2016 Last revised: 6 Apr 2017

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Mostafa Monzur Hasan

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; Macquarie University

Haiyan Jiang

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Corporate Governance; University of Waikato - Management School

Date Written: March 11, 2017

Abstract

We survey the burgeoning literature on the determinants of future stock price crash risk in the US, as well as in countries outside the US. Stock price crash risk, a manifestation of extreme negative values in the distribution of firm-specific returns, has attracted considerable research interests. According to Jin and Myers (2006), when cash flow is lower than investors expect, managers hide the bad news in an effort to protect their jobs. However, when the accumulated bad news finally crosses a tipping point, managers release all the bad news at once, which then results in a stock price crash. We synthesize a vast body of literature on the determinants of crash risk, identify weaknesses, and offer future research opportunities. We categorize the determinants into: (i) financial reporting and corporate disclosures, (ii) managerial incentives and managerial characteristics, (iii) capital market transactions, (iv) corporate governance mechanisms, and (v) informal institutional mechanisms. Despite a large body of research into the determinants of crash risk, very little research attention has been directed towards understanding the consequences of stock price crash.

Keywords: Stock price crash risk; financial reporting; corporate governance; non-formal institutions

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Hasan, Mostafa Monzur and Jiang, Haiyan, Stock Price Crash Risk: Review of the Empirical Literature (March 11, 2017). Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2811256 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2811256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
J L Callen , X Fang
Institutional investor stability and crash risk: Monitoring versus shorttermism?
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 37 , issue 8 , p. 3047 - 3063 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J L Callen , X Fang
Short interest and stock price crash risk
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 60 , p. 181 - 194 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J L Callen , X Fang
Religion and stock price crash risk
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 50 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 169 - 195 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Y Campbell , L Hentschel
No news is good news: an asymmetric model of changing volatility in stock returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 31 , p. 281 - 318 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Viet Anh Dang , Edward Lee , Yangke Liu , Cheng Zeng
Corporate Debt Maturity and Stock Price Crash Risk
European Financial Management, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 15 Feb 2016 · Last revised: 18 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 691
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,625
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,210
RANK
11,981
1 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies