Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Japanese Corporate Governance from the Perspective of Family Firms

16 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2016

Hokuto Dazai

Nagoya University of Commerce and Business

Takuji Saito

Waseda University

Zenichi Shishido

Hitotsubashi University Graduate School of Law

Noriyuki Yanagawa

University of Tokyo - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: July 18, 2016

Abstract

Corporate governance has been a hot issue across the world, especially since the Enron scandal and the Lehman shock. The Anglo-Saxon model (A-form), which focuses on monitoring management to maximize shareholder value through mechanisms such as hostile takeovers and independent directors, is often criticized as either malfunctioning or short-sighted.

The Japanese model (J-form) differs markedly from the Anglo-Saxon model: there is stronger capacity for internal governance, there exist mechanisms such as “lifetime” employment to incentivize human capital providers, there is greater internal promotion, and shareholder intervention can be limited through cross-shareholding practices. These differences were once cited to explain Japan’s economic miracle, but were also cited as a major factor behind the lost decades of the 1990s and 2000s.

In fact, after the bubble economy of the mid-1980s, the ROAs of Japanese companies declined and were lower than that of Anglo-Saxon companies. Interestingly, Japanese family (J-family) firms have performed better than ordinary J-form firms, particularly after the economic bubble.

This paper attempts to answer the questions: why have the performances of J-form firms deteriorated since the Japanese economic bubble in the mid-1980s, and why have J-family firms generally outperformed non-family firms? The paper will analyze and compare J-form and J-family firms on general issues of corporate governance, including internal and external governance, internal promotion rules, long-run reward systems, and incentive mechanisms.

Keywords: family firm, corproate governance, Japan

JEL Classification: C32, C34

Suggested Citation:

Dazai, Hokuto and Saito, Takuji and Shishido, Zenichi and Yanagawa, Noriyuki, Japanese Corporate Governance from the Perspective of Family Firms (July 18, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2811069 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2811069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
M Aoki
Towards an Economic Model of the Japanese Firm
Journal of Economic Litarature , volume 28 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding Family Ownership and Performance. Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1301 - 1327 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Bennedsen , K Nielsen , F Perez-Gonzalez , D Wolfenzon
Inside the Family Firm: the Role of Families in Succession Decisions and Performance
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 122 , p. 647 - 691 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Barth , T Gulbrandsen , P Schonea
Family Ownership and Productivity: the Role of Owner-management
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 11 , p. 107 - 127 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,432
RANK
279,521
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies