Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risks, Challenges and Value for Money of Public-Private Partnerships

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 18 Jul 2016

Demi Chung

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting

Date Written: July 18, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the unique issues, challenges and risks emerging at the end of a public-private partnership (PPP) concession. The M4 motorway is the first Australian PPP that has reached the end of its concession. The absence of formal guidance on contractual closure created challenges for the partners in interpreting contract ambiguities, and in reaching agreement on the processes needed to close the contract. These challenges had posed several relational risks, the mitigations of which were supported by the relational contract partners developed over the concession term, and their reciprocity and ethical motivations. The reintegration risk emerged in the handback exemplifies the limits of controls designed for legitimacy concerns to resolve coordination problems. The political settlement for value for money was gestured by lifting the toll after the concession ended. In providing unparalleled empirical evidence to against the long-term ‘myths’ of PPPs, the study counters the criticism over PPPs’ impossibilities to handle uncertainties and to transfer risk.

Keywords: public-private partnerships, risk, value for money, reintegration risk, end of concession

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Chung, Demi, Risks, Challenges and Value for Money of Public-Private Partnerships (July 18, 2016). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2811214
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies