Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance: A Threat to Corporate Legitimacy? An Examination of Companies’ Financial and CSR Reports

Refereed paper. British Tax Review Number 3 (2016), Forthcoming

26 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2016

Kevin Holland

Cardiff Business School

Sarah Lindop

Aberystwyth University

Fatimah Zainudin

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Date Written: July 19, 2016

Abstract

While there have been regular debates on corporate tax avoidance, a distinguishing feature of the current interest is the involvement of a wider audience which includes society in general. By analysing both tax related disclosures in company annual reports and corporate social responsibility reports the authors examine how managers of companies who have been subject to specific criticism of their alleged tax avoidance respond to such criticism. Using a legitimacy theory framework to identify four disclosure themes: explicit tax philosophy, implicit tax philosophy, tax conduct and tax contribution, companies’ reports for the 11 year period 2004–2005 to 2014–2015 have been analysed.

The authors have found what appears to be evidence of inconsistency on the part of managers in identifying appropriate responses which the authors attribute to uncertainty as to the status of tax avoidance. The uncertainty is apparent in variation over time both within companies and between companies and is reflected in the incidence of disclosures, their content, and in some cases the absence of a disclosure. This uncertainty is most probably part of a wider reluctance to respond directly to the criticism or to enter into debate and reflects societal ambiguity as regards the legitimacy of tax avoidance.

The authors conclude that governments cannot rely on managerial attitudes or voluntary frameworks if they wish to change the behaviour of managers in relation both to tax avoidance or to tax more widely.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Avoidance, Corporate Legitimacy, CSR

Suggested Citation:

Holland, Kevin M. and Lindop, Sarah and Zainudin, Fatimah, Tax Avoidance: A Threat to Corporate Legitimacy? An Examination of Companies’ Financial and CSR Reports (July 19, 2016). Refereed paper. British Tax Review Number 3 (2016), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2811599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
HMRC's Anti-Avoidance Group (AAG) refers to "a list of common features of transactions or arrangements … which have been identified as unacceptable in the past
Hmrc See
Posted: 2012
OECD, Study into the Role of Tax Intermediaries Posted: 2008-06
Crossref
S Bond , M Gammie , J Whiting
10. Tax Avoidance
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,667
RANK
36,115
5 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies