Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Agency Theory Problem of Earnings Management: Is it an Anglo-Saxon Cultural Phenomenon?

International Journal of Critical Accounting, 7(5/6): 487-511, 2015

39 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2016

Ramon Rodriguez

Idaho State University

Stephen B. Salter

Department of Accounting Middle Tennessee University

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The arrangement in which a manager, that is, an agent, works for the benefit of a property owner has been around since the beginning of human history. An early example is found in the parable of the “shrewd manager,” told by Jesus of Nazareth. This study presents empirical evidence that will be used to determine whether Agency Theory is primarily applicable in Anglo-Saxon countries. Two competing perspectives are evaluated: (1) national cultural variable individualism/collectivism influences agency problems versus (2) agency problems are a unique Anglo-Saxon problem. Using a sample of firms from thirty counties over a five year window, controlling for location in Anglo-Saxon countries, the national cultural variable is insignificant. Thus, the analysis indicates that the agency problem of earnings management appears to be a unique Anglo-Saxon problem rather than a function of the individualism/collectivism dimension of national culture.

Keywords: Agency Theory, Anglo-American, Anglo-Saxon, Collectivism, Culture, Earnings Management, Individualism, International Accounting

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rodriguez, Ramon and Salter, Stephen Brian and Smith, Murphy, An Examination of the Agency Theory Problem of Earnings Management: Is it an Anglo-Saxon Cultural Phenomenon? (2015). International Journal of Critical Accounting, 7(5/6): 487-511, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2812931
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
Y Amihud , B Lev
Risk reduction as a managerial motive for conglomerate mergers
The Bell Journal of Economics , volume 12 , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
Crossref
P Ashcroft , L M Smith
Impact of Environmental Regulation on Financial Reporting of Pollution Activity: A Comparative Study of U.S. and Canadian Firms
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 20 , p. 127 - 153 Posted: 2008
Crossref
N M Ashkanasy , E Trevor-Roberts , L Earnshaw
The Anglo cluster: Legacy of the British Empire
Journal of World Business , volume 37 , p. 28 - 39 Posted: 2002
Crossref
T Baker , D Collins , A Reitenga
Stock option compensation and earnings management incentives
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 18 , p. 557 - 582 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
376
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,590
RANK
180,781
1 Citations
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies