Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Executive Pay: What Worked?

Journal of Corporation Law, Forthcoming

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 16-11

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 38/2016

Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2016-37

60 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2016 Last revised: 17 Aug 2016

Steven A. Bank

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Brian R. Cheffins

University of Cambridge - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Harwell Wells

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Date Written: August 2016

Abstract

CEO pay is a controversial issue in America but there was a time, often overlooked today, when chief executives were not paid nearly as much as they are now. From 1940 to the mid-1970s executive pay was modest by today’s standards even though U.S. business was generally thriving. What worked to keep executive pay in check? Economist Thomas Piketty and others credit high marginal income tax rates, leading to calls for a return to a similar tax regime. This paper casts doubt on the impact tax had and also shows that neither the configuration of boards nor shareholder activism played a significant role in constraining executive pay. It emphasizes instead the roles played by strong unions, a different and more circumscribed market for managerial talent, and social norms, explanations that do not easily lend themselves to generating modern policy prescriptions.

Keywords: Tax, Corporate Governance, Executive Compensation, CEO compensation Reform

Suggested Citation:

Bank, Steven A. and Cheffins, Brian R. and Wells, Harwell, Executive Pay: What Worked? (August 2016). Journal of Corporation Law, Forthcoming, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 16-11, University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 38/2016, Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2016-37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2812349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Daniel Kadlec , Bernard Baumohl
Linking the Boss's Check to the Firm's Stock Price Seemed Reasonable Then the Market Went Wild
TIME Posted: 1997-04-28
Richard A Lord , Yoshie Saito
Trends in CEO Compensation and Equity Holdings for S&P 1500 Firms
J. APP. FIN , volume 40 , issue 2 Posted: 1994
Martin J Conyon
Executive Compensation and Board Governance in US Firms
Crossref
ECON J , volume 60 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,097
RANK
43,338
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Temple University Beasley School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Cambridge Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies