Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Women in the Boardroom and Their Impact on Default Risk: A Pitch

9 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2016 Last revised: 29 Jan 2017

Searat Ali

University of Wollongong; University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Date Written: July 20, 2016

Abstract

This pitch research letter (PRL) applies the pitching template developed by Faff (2015) to an academic project on boardroom gender diversity and default risk. The pitching template helped the pitcher to identify the core elements that form the framework of the research project. The PRL encloses a brief background about the pitcher and pitch, followed by a brief commentary on the pitch and personal reflections of the pitcher on the pitch exercise itself.

Keywords: Pitching research, Pitching template, novice researchers, Women on boards, Default risk, Information asymmetry; Corporate governance

JEL Classification: G12, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Searat and Ali, Searat, Women in the Boardroom and Their Impact on Default Risk: A Pitch (July 20, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2812403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2812403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of financial economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Searat Ali , Searat Ali
Corporate Governance and Stock Liquidity in Australia: A Pitch
Journal of Accounting and Management Information System (JAMIS), 15 (3), 624-631, 2016 Pages: 8 Posted: 12 Feb 2016 Last revised: 28 Jan 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Ali , B Liu , J J Su
Does corporate governance quality reduce financial distress? New panel evidence from Australia , volume 11 Posted: 2014
Ranking: ACFI is one of the best and internationally reputed Australian journals rated A in the ABDC list. Similarly, JCF is a highly reputed international journal and is considered A* in the ABDC list. Scope: Both journals are publishing papers on corporate governance, gender diversity, and default risk. Tension: Recent papers on corporate governance and default risk in ACFI and gender diversity and risk-taking in JCF find inconclusive results. Moreover, these journals welcome papers using data from countries other than the US
The target journals (item K), ACFI and JCF, are selected because of three reasons: ranking, scope, and tension
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,062
RANK
436,820
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies