Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Corporate Governance Mandates Impact Long-Term Firm Value and Governance Culture?

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2813650

46 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2016

Reena Aggarwal

Georgetown University - Robert Emmett McDonough School of Business ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National University of Singapore (NUS) - Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER)

Jason D. Schloetzer

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Rohan Williamson

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: July 25, 2016

Abstract

Motivated by recent changes to corporate governance standards around the world, we use a regulatory shock that substantially altered the governance structure for some firms to shed light on the long-term impact of mandates that are of global interest. Firms affected by this shock had lower values and non-mandated governance practices that were less shareholder friendly before the mandates were in effect when compared to unaffected matched peers. In the post-mandate period, we document a 48 percent tightening of the relative value gap, and show that this gap relates to the continued use of less shareholder friendly non-mandated governance practices. Our results suggest that governance mandates can tighten, but not eliminate, the value gap between poorly and well governed firms, and that firms affected by the shock continue to have less shareholder friendly governance cultures long after regulatory intervention.

Keywords: Corporate Governance; Firm Value; Corporate Culture; Governance Regulation

JEL Classification: G3, G32, G34, K22, L51

Suggested Citation:

Aggarwal, Reena and Schloetzer, Jason D. and Williamson, Rohan G., Do Corporate Governance Mandates Impact Long-Term Firm Value and Governance Culture? (July 25, 2016). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 2813650, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2813650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
V Acharya , P Volpin
Corporate governance externalities
Review of Finance , volume 14 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferrera , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , R Stulz , R Williamson
Differences in governance practices between U.S. and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 3131 - 3169 Posted: 2009
Crossref
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Ugur Lel , Mete Tepe
Does CEO Pay Inequality Reflect Poor Corporate Governance? Evidence from the NYSE/NASDAQ Governance Reforms
43 Pages · Posted: 29 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 56
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Abdelrhman Yusuf , Mohamed Sherif
All on Board? New Evidence on Board Characteristics from a Large Panel of UK FTSE Indices
Sustainability, 2020 · 26 Pages · Posted: 27 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 40
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,980
RANK
142,640
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies