Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Borrowers’ Accounting Information and Banks’ Lending Decisions

48 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2016 Last revised: 27 Jul 2016

Carlo Maria Gallimberti

Boston College

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

I examine the relation between borrowers’ accounting information and banks’ lending decisions, measured in terms of nonperforming loans (NPLs) and pooling of borrowers (i.e., the inability to price-differentiate borrowers). If the information contained in borrowers’ financial statements affects the degree of bank screening and monitoring, banks’ lending decisions will be a function of borrowers’ accounting information. If banks can use their information advantage to overcome any screening and monitoring need, banks’ lending decisions will be independent of borrowers’ accounting information. Using an international sample of banks and loan contracts, I find that banks have impaired screening and monitoring abilities after borrowers are required to change their accounting numbers, i.e., to switch from their local accounting rules (local GAAP) to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), suggesting that borrowers’ financial statements are a nontrivial part of banks’ information set. The results are stronger in countries whose accounting rules differed the most compared to IFRS, in banks with higher proportions of loans granted to borrowers using IFRS, and in banks less familiar with the new standards, suggesting that the effect is not only due to the content of the new standards but also to nontrivial learning costs. The effect is also robust to change in countries’ enforcement levels, although weaker.

Keywords: Lending Decisions, Banks, Monitoring, Screening, Information Asymmetry, IFRS, Non-Performing Loans

JEL Classification: G14, G21, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gallimberti, Carlo Maria, Borrowers’ Accounting Information and Banks’ Lending Decisions (June 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2813798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2813798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
George Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Joshua Angrist , Jörn-Steffen David , Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
Kee Bae , Hongping Hong , Michael Tan , Welker
International GAAP Differences: The Impact on Foreign Analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Ray Ball , Xi Li , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
Contractibility and Transparency of Financial Statement Information Prepared Under IFRS: Evidence from Debt Contracts Around IFRS Adoption
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 915 - 963 Posted: 2015-12
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
374
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,462
RANK
181,854
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies