Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Reactions to the Closest Peer Firm's Analyst Revisions

Forthcoming, Accounting and Business Research

47 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2016 Last revised: 31 Oct 2017

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Wuyang Zhao

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

Date Written: October 30, 2017

Abstract

Prior analyst literature focuses on the impact of financial analysts on the firms they cover, and prior information-transfer literature concentrates on the externalities of information provided by management. This paper fills gaps in both streams of literature by examining the focal firm’s market reactions to the closest peer firm’s (identified by product similarity) analyst revisions. We find that the focal firm’s stock price reacts to the closest peer’s analyst revisions made by analysts who are not covering the focal firm. The focal firm’s CAR for a five-day window centered on the revision date is 0.54% higher if the peer firm’s analyst revision magnitude is in the top decile than if it is in the bottom decile. Cross-sectional tests show that the sensitivity of the focal firm’s market reactions to the peer firm’s revisions increases with the revision informativeness and the similarity between the focal firm and the peer firm. In addition, we find that focal firms do not react to peer firms’ revisions in industries with strong competition where the competitive effects cancel out the spillover effects. Finally, we find that the focal firm’s market reactions can predict its own future analyst revisions, suggesting that the reactions are at least partially rational.

Keywords: Peer Firms, Analyst Revisions, Market Reactions, Information Transfer

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G29, G30, G32, G34, G39

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Zhao, Wuyang, Market Reactions to the Closest Peer Firm's Analyst Revisions (October 30, 2017). Forthcoming, Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2813244 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2813244
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the Post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S P Baginski
Intraindustry information transfers associated with management forecasts of earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 196 - 216 Posted: 1987
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,702
RANK
122,782
2 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies