Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing the Effectiveness of ERM: Evidence from Operational Losses

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol. 87, pp. 70-82, 2016

32 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2016 Last revised: 22 Oct 2017

Khalid Amri

Sultan Qaboos University

Yevgeniy Davydov

New York University (NYU) - New York University

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) provides a novel approach to managing all risks faced by a firm as a portfolio. By forming a portfolio of risks firms can optimally choose strategies to hedge their overall risk. This study investigates ERM implementation across a broad spectrum of industries. In particular, we examine the effectiveness of ERM in improving firm internal controls by its impact on operational risk. Our findings suggest that ERM is effective in reducing both the frequency and severity of operational risk events. We find that firms with ERM programs on average experience a 63% reduction in the frequency of operational risk events and up to a 35% reduction in operational losses. The findings still hold after controlling for endogenous selection.

Keywords: Operational Risk, Enterprise Risk Management, Corporate Risk Management

JEL Classification: G20, G32

Suggested Citation:

Amri, Khalid and Davydov, Yevgeniy, Testing the Effectiveness of ERM: Evidence from Operational Losses (2016). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol. 87, pp. 70-82, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2813283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M Altuntas , T Berry-Stölzle , R Hoyt
Implementation of Enterprise Risk Management: Evidence from the German Property-Liability Insurance Industry
Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance-Issues and Practice , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 414 - 439 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Baxter , J C Bedard , R Hoitash , Yezegel , A
Enterprise risk management program quality: Determinants, value relevance, and the financial crisis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1264 - 1295 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Beasley , D Pagach , R Warr
Information Conveyed in Hiring Announcements of Senior Executives Overseeing Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Processes
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 311 - 332 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Chernobai , P Jorion , Yu , F
The Determinants of Operational Risk in US Financial Institutions
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 46 , issue 6 , p. 1683 - 1725 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,490
RANK
418,259
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies