Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Timeliness of UK Private Company Financial Reporting: Regulatory and Economic Influences

The British Accounting Review, 48(3), pp. 297-315, 2016

Posted: 27 Jul 2016 Last revised: 29 Jul 2016

Mark A. Clatworthy

University of Bristol Business School

Michael J. Peel

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 26, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the extent to which the timeliness of UK private companies’ accounting information reflects regulatory and economic influences by studying the impact of a one month shortening of the statutory regulatory filing deadline. Using the financial reporting lag and propensity to file late as measures of timeliness, we find that although reporting behaviour is largely driven by regulatory deadlines, companies conjectured to be producing accounting information for reporting to outside investors publish their accounts significantly more quickly, and are substantially less likely to file beyond the statutory deadline (late), than their counterparts lacking similar incentives. However, in terms of this reporting lag differential, the change in regulation had a homogeneous impact. We report a significant reduction in the mean and median filing time, but an increase of 46% in the proportion of firms filing late, in the year following the regulatory change. Our results are robust to the employment of a number of different estimation methods, including matching and Huber and median regression.

Keywords: Private Company Financial Reporting, Regulation, Voluntary Audit, Timeliness, Late Filing

JEL Classification: M40, M4

Suggested Citation:

Clatworthy, Mark A. and Peel, Michael J., The Timeliness of UK Private Company Financial Reporting: Regulatory and Economic Influences (July 26, 2016). The British Accounting Review, 48(3), pp. 297-315, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2814574
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies