Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IPOs, Institutional Complexity, and Management Accounting in Hybrid Organisations: A Field Study in a State-Owned Enterprise in China

Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2016

Narisa Tianjing Dai

University of International Business and Economics - Business School

Zhiyuan (Simon) Tan

The University of Sydney Business School

Guliang Tang

University of International Business and Economics

Jason Zezhong Xiao

University of Macau

Date Written: July 25, 2016

Abstract

An initial public offering (IPO) is an important milestone for an organisation. In addition to pressures from capital markets unavoidably imposed onto newly listed firms, other beliefs, rationales, and prescriptions deriving from the institutional environment where they operate may prevail and guide organisational practices. Drawing on the perspective of institutional logics, this paper investigates the implementation of management accounting (MA) within firms that face multiple institutional demands following an IPO. By studying a Chinese state-owned enterprise (SOE) that was recently listed, this paper demonstrates that the interplay of multiple logics, including State, corporate, and capital market logics, shapes the manner in which MA operates. This study also reveals that different MA practices tend to encompass institutional demands in diverse ways and to varying degrees. However, regardless of whether MA practices are implemented to simply respond to plural institutional expectations, connect different organising principles, or balance elements of multiple logics, they function as hybrid practices, helping to maintain the hybrid nature of the firm as a ‘listed SOE’. This study makes two main contributions. First, it extends the literature on IPOs by providing an in-depth analysis of how MA is implemented and why it functions in particular ways in firms following an IPO, and by exploring the influences of a wider set of beliefs, rationales, and expectations on the MA practices of newly listed companies. Second, by drawing on the perspective of institutional logics, this paper extends prior research addressing the dynamics between institutional complexity and MA adoption by individual organisations and enriches our understanding of how hybrid organisations may maintain their hybridity through the deployment of MA practices.

Keywords: IPOs, management accounting, Chinese state-owned enterprises, institutional logics

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Narisa Tianjing and Tan, Simon and Tang, Guliang and Xiao, Jason Zezhong, IPOs, Institutional Complexity, and Management Accounting in Hybrid Organisations: A Field Study in a State-Owned Enterprise in China (July 25, 2016). Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2814332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
M Aguiar , A Bhattacharya , L De Vitton , J Hemerling , K Koh , D C Michael , H L Sirkin , K Waddell , B Waltermann
SASAC: China's Megashareholder Posted: 2007-03
J Aharony , C-J Lin , M P Loeb
Initial public offerings, accounting choices, and earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 81 Posted: 1993
Crossref
J Aharony , C W Lee , T J Wong
Financial packaging of IPO firms in China
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunneling as an incentive for earnings management during the IPO process in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Annemarie Conrath‐Hargreaves , Sonja Wüstemann
Managing Multiple Institutional Logics and the Use of Accounting: Insights from a German Higher Education Institution
Abacus, Vol. 55, Issue 3, pp. 483-510, 2019 · 28 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 2
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fangjuan Qiu , Nan Hu , Peng Liang , Kevin Dow
Measuring Management Accounting Practices Using Textual Analysis
Qiu, F., Hu, N., Liang, P., & Dow, K. (2023). Measuring management accounting practices using textual analysis. Management Accounting Research, 58, 100818. · 16 Pages · Posted: 6 Jan 2021 · Last revised: 4 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 680
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Binh Bui , Charl de Villiers
Recovery From COVID-19 Towards a Low-Carbon Economy – A Role for Accounting Technologies in Designing, Implementing, and Assessing Stimulus Packages
Accounting & Finance, forthcoming, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper · 36 Pages · Posted: 17 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 72
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,647
RANK
487,089
3 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies