Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Generalized Trust and Civic Cooperation on the Big N Presence and Audit Fees Across the Globe

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 38(1), 193-219, February 2019

60 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2016 Last revised: 23 Mar 2019

Warren Robert Knechel

University of Auckland Business School

Natalia M. Mintchik

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Mikhail Pevzner

University of Baltimore - Merrick School of Business

Uma Velury

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Date Written: December 12, 2017

Abstract

We examine the impact of informal cultural attributes, such as generalized trust and civic cooperation in a society, on the presence of Big N auditors and audit fees in country-specific audit markets. On one hand, because societies with higher trust and civic cooperation are associated with low levels of agency problems, we could expect reduced demand and pricing of audit services when trust and civic cooperation is high. On the other hand, high trust societies may experience high societal costs of inappropriate behavior and place high value on a strong audit function which could result in a relatively high demand for audit services. In additional tests, we control for the strength of the protection of minority shareholders and its interaction with societal trust/civic cooperation. We find that both trust and civic cooperation are positively associated with Big N presence and audit fees in countries with weak investor protection. However, in countries with strong investor protection, trust is negatively associated with Big N presence and audit fees. These results suggest that both formal and informal institutions can act as substitutes in determining the demand and supply for audit services in international context.

Keywords: trust, audit, civic cooperation

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Knechel, Warren Robert and Mintchik, Natalia M. and Pevzner, Mikhail and Velury, Uma, The Effects of Generalized Trust and Civic Cooperation on the Big N Presence and Audit Fees Across the Globe (December 12, 2017). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 38(1), 193-219, February 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2815180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2815180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
D Afshartous , R A Preston
Key results of interaction models with centering
Journal of Statistics Education , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Aghion , Y Algan , P Cahuc , A Shleifer
Regulation and distrust
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 125 , p. 1015 - 1049 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,413
RANK
244,478
2 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies