Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The State of Internal Audit's Regulatory Mandate

Risk, Governance & Control: Financial Markets and Institutions, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 99-105, 2016

20 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2016

Christo Ackermann

University of Johannesburg

Date Written: May 11, 2016

Abstract

The importance of an effective internal audit function in South African municipalities have been recognised insofar as internal audit functions are legally mandated to exist within municipalities. This also means that legally, internal audit has certain mandates which must be fulfilled in order to add value to management and audit committees, and ultimately, to the board of directors. Even though internal audit is sanctioned by this important legal mandate, evidence shows that internal audit does not always fulfil this mandate. This state of affairs has prompted a detailed review of the relevant laws and regulations governing the work of internal audit in South African municipalities in order to determine the extent to which key stakeholders find the regulatory work of internal audit useful in discharging their (stakeholders’) oversight responsibilities.

Questionnaires were administered to audit committees. The results summarise the extent to which internal audit’s work assists audit committees in their oversight responsibilities as this ultimately affects the ability of audit committees to fulfil these responsibilities to the board of directors. The results indicate that audit committees are greatly dependent on internal audit as a provider of assurance on a variety of legally mandated variables. The results of this study can be used as a measure of best practice of the legally mandated duties performed by internal audit. It can also be used by other researchers in comparative studies and by practitioners to benchmark their work in order to better serve audit committees and ultimately, the board of directors.

Keywords: Internal audit functioning, regulatory mandate, municipalities, South Africa, audit committees

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ackermann, Christo, The State of Internal Audit's Regulatory Mandate (May 11, 2016). Risk, Governance & Control: Financial Markets and Institutions, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 99-105, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2815238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Auditor-General South Africa
Consolidated general report on the local government audit outcomes Posted: 2009
Auditor-General South Africa
Consolidated general report on the audit outcomes of local government Posted: 2010
Consolidated general report on national and provincial audit outcomes 2011-2012. Pretoria: Auditor-General South Africa Posted: 2006-04-19
I Ferreira
The role of internal auditors in the professional development of audit committee members Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
596,846
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies