Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Triangulation to View Internal Audit’s Governance Functioning

Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 13, No. 4, pp.287-296, 2016

28 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2016

Christo Ackermann

University of Johannesburg

Date Written: June 1, 2016

Abstract

Internal audit departments of organisations are regarded as an integral component of the combined assurance model alongside the audit committee, management and the external auditors. The primary users of the work of internal audit are the audit committee, senior management, other levels of management and to some extent, the external auditors. This wide audience served by internal audit reinforces the importance of IAFs’ work, which deals with important aspects facing the entity. Internal audit is therefore able to reduce the lack of information availability for the audit committee on matters concerning risk management, internal control and governance. However, a study conducted on audit committee effectiveness, it was found that 40% of audit committees in national government departments in South Africa are not fully effective and are failing to contribute towards improving internal control, risk management, governance and financial reporting practices. Audit committees’ effectiveness in contributing to risk management, internal control and governance was measured at 63%, 76% and 62% respectively, in a comprehensive study on audit committees in the South African public sector. This indicates that their oversight in these areas, especially risk management and governance, is not yet effective. These findings are concerning given that audit committees have a legal mandate to assist government departments in these areas. Internal audit functions are key in assisting audit committees in their governance oversight responsibility.

The present study reports on the extent to which internal audit in the eight metropolitan municipalities in South Africa assists audit committees in their governance oversight responsibility, focusing on the scope of work of internal audit with reference to its governance mandate. A data transformation triangulation design was followed to describe internal audit’s functioning.

Keywords: Internal Audit, governance, South Africa, triangulation, municipalities

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ackermann, Christo, Using Triangulation to View Internal Audit’s Governance Functioning (June 1, 2016). Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 13, No. 4, pp.287-296, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2815198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M J Abdolmohammadi
Chief Audit Executives' Assessment of Internal Auditors' Performance Attributes by Professional Rank and Cultural Cluster Posted: 2012
Crossref
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23
Crossref
Auditor-General South Africa
Consolidated general report on national and provincial audit outcomes 2011-2012. Pretoria: Auditor-General South Africa Posted: 2013
Auditor-General South Africa
Consolidated general report on the local government audit outcomes Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,595
RANK
475,518
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies