Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Acquisitions on Cash Ratios of the Acquiring Firm: Evidence from the EU12

39 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2016

Bianca Fledderus

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Date Written: June 13, 2016

Abstract

Using a total sample of 1,850 acquisitions from 2007 to 2013 in the EU12, I examine the impact acquisitions have on cash ratios of acquiring firms directly after an acquisition and after one year. This paper shows that cash ratios significantly decline by 1.7% right after an acquisition. Furthermore, the cash ratios significantly decline by 2.2% one year after an acquisition, relative to one year before an acquisition. No significant difference is obtained between the change in cash ratios after a pure cash acquisition, and after a non-cash acquisition. Possible explanations for the decline in cash ratios after an acquisition are; the payment method, where the acquisition is often not financed in one instance; the integration costs; certain repellents aiming to discourage the acquisition; the response of a firm’s investors to the negative announcement effect of acquisitions. Furthermore, this paper shows the importance of acquisition when studying cash ratios. Various studies emphasize how certain variables influence cash ratios in a firm. Acquisitions, however, are not included in these studies, while this is a critical determinant.

Keywords: Cash Holdings, Cash Ratios, Acquisitions, Cash Acquisitions, EU12

JEL Classification: G34, G35

Suggested Citation:

Fledderus, Bianca, The Influence of Acquisitions on Cash Ratios of the Acquiring Firm: Evidence from the EU12 (June 13, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2815723 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2815723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,451
RANK
627,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies