Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Risk Management in Metropolitan Municipalities

Risk, Governance & Control: Financial Markets and Institutions, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 45-51, 2016

21 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2016

Christo Ackermann

University of Johannesburg

Ben Marx

University of Johannesburg

Date Written: May 20, 2016

Abstract

Internal audit functions (IAFs) of organisations are regarded as crucial components of the combined assurance model, alongside the audit committee, management and external auditors. The combined assurance model aims at having integrated and aligned assurance in organisations with the overall aim of maximising risk and governance oversight and control efficiencies. In this regard, internal audit plays a crucial role, insofar as it consists of experts in risk, governance and control consultancy who provide assurance to senior management and the audit committee. Audit committees are dependent on internal audit for information and their effectiveness revolves around a strong and well-resourced internal audit function which is able to aid audit committees to meet their oversight responsibilities. There is thus a growing demand for managing risk through the process of risk management and internal audit is in a perfect position to assist with the improvement of such processes. If internal auditors wish to continue being an important aspect of the combined assurance model, they need to address the critical area, amongst others, of risk management as part of their work. If not, it follows that the board, audit committees and other levels of management will remain uninformed on the status of these matters which, in turn, will negatively impact the ability of these stakeholders to discharge their responsibilities. This study therefore focuses on analysing the functioning of IAFs, with specific reference to their risk management mandate. The study followed a mixed method approach to describe internal audits risk management functioning in the big eight metropolitan municipalities in South Africa. The results show that internal audit provide a broad scope of risk management work which assist senior management in the discharge of their responsibilities. However, in the public eye, internal audits risk management functioning is scant.

Keywords: Internal Audit; Risk Management; Public Sector; Municipalities; South Africa; Mixed Methods

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ackermann, Christo and Marx, Ben, Internal Audit Risk Management in Metropolitan Municipalities (May 20, 2016). Risk, Governance & Control: Financial Markets and Institutions, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 45-51, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2815237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
E D Almer , A A Gramling , S E Kaplan
Impact of Post-restatement Actions Taken by a Firm on Non-professional Investors' Credibility Perceptions
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 80 , p. 61 - 76 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Arena , G Azzone
Internal Audit Departments: Adoption and Characteristics in Italian Companies
International Journal of Auditing , volume 11 , p. 91 - 114 Posted: 2007
Crossref
G P Coetzee , R Du Bruyn , H Fourie , K Plant
Advanced Internal Audit Topics , volume 3 Posted: 2012
R D&apos;cunha
A Collaborative Check-up. Internal Auditor , p. 62 - 65 Posted: 2013-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
596
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,693
RANK
104,285
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies