Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Web of Negligence: Team Interactions as a Conduit for Audit Misbehavior

54 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2016 Last revised: 21 Mar 2024

Bingbing Hu

Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU)

Lixin (Nancy) Su

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: May 1, 2021

Abstract

Using a comprehensive sample of public-company audits in China, we document a contagion of audit misbehavior among individual auditors (i.e., CPAs) through audit-team networks. Regulators sanction CPAs whose audits are deemed to have failed. We find that sanctioned CPAs systematically provide low-quality audits during their audit-failure period. Importantly, we document strong evidence that CPAs who have co-signed with the sanctioned CPAs on non-sanctioned audits also exhibit low quality in other audits during the sanctioned CPAs’ audit-failure period, and such a contagion effect dissipates gradually among CPAs who are more remotely connected to the sanctioned CPAs. Additional analysis reveals that the increase in clientele size is likely the economic incentive underlying the transmission of audit misbehavior. By identifying audit team interactions as a specific mechanism through which negligence spreads across CPAs, our study sheds novel insights on the auditor learning.

Keywords: audit quality, contagion, teamwork, sanction

JEL Classification: M40, M42, M48, D83

Suggested Citation:

Hu, Bingbing and Su, Lixin (Nancy) and Wu, Donghui, Web of Negligence: Team Interactions as a Conduit for Audit Misbehavior (May 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2816435 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2816435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
W Adler
Land of Opportunity: One Family's Quest for the American Dream in the Age of Crack Posted: 1995
P Allison
Fixed Effects Regression Methods for Longitudinal Data Using SAS ® Posted: 2005
L M Andiola , J C Bedard
Delivering the "tough message": Moderators of subordinate auditors' reactions to feedback
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 70 , p. 52 - 68 Posted: 2018
K Aquino , D Freeman , A Reed , I I , V K G Lim , W Felps
Testing a social cognitive model of moral behavior: The interactive influence of situations and moral identity centrality
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 97 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 141 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,481
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,133
RANK
29,586
10 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies