Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Director-Liability-Reduction Laws and Conditional Conservatism

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2016 Last revised: 16 Mar 2019

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Yi Liang

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 11, 2019

Abstract

We study non-officer directors’ influence on the accounting conservatism of U.S. public firms. Between 1986 and 2002, all 50 U.S. states enacted laws that limited non-officer directors’ litigation risk without changing officer directors’ litigation risk. We find that conditional conservatism decreased after the staggered enactments of the laws, which we attribute to less non-officer-director monitoring of financial reporting in affected firms. Conservatism fell less when shareholder or debtholder power was high, consistent with major stakeholders moderating the influence of non-officer directors. We verify that our results stem from reductions in the asymmetric timeliness of accruals and, specifically, its current assets components. We also show that affected firms switched away from Big N auditors more often, which reduced these firms’ commitment to conservative financial reports.

Keywords: Litigation Risk, Corporate Governance, D&O Insurance, Non-Officer Directors, Board Monitoring

JEL Classification: G14; G34; G38; K22; M41

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Liang, Yi, Director-Liability-Reduction Laws and Conditional Conservatism (March 11, 2019). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2816617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2816617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
363
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,235
RANK
187,924
23 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies