Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Opportunity Set, Corporate Governance Practices and Performance of Modarabas

Sharif, S. (2019), Investment Opportunity Set, Corporate Governance Practices and Performance of Modarabas. Global Management Journal for Academic & Corporate Studies (GMJACS), Volume 9, Issue 1, pages 175-1781

16 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2016 Last revised: 21 Jul 2019

Saqib Sharif

Institute of Business Administration, Karachi

Date Written: July 23, 2016

Abstract

The literature on association between corporate governance and firm performance is based on the paradigm that there is a positive relationship between the two. Since better corporate control mechanism reduces the risk of information asymmetry and align the interests of owners and managers. However, prior studies have documented mixed and to some extent weak results. Many researchers believe the global financial crisis of 2007-09 occurred due to slack board oversight and flawed remuneration of managers that boosts aggressive risk taking (Erkens, Hung, & Matos, 2012; Sharfman, 2009). While for ordinary shareholders, it is difficult to monitor the actions of executives, due to costly state verification. This paper, following the approach of Hutchinson & Gul (2004), postulates, as a principal association, a negative relationship between growth and performance of modaraba companies; and then investigate whether corporate governance variables moderate this negative association. In Islamic finance, modaraba is a kind of partnership wherein one party extends capital to other for the purpose of carrying business and sharing profits earned through mixture of investment and expertise. Modarabas are shariah-compliant (i.e., pure Islamic based) financial sector firms. The results support this paradigm to some extent and show that the presence of non-executive and independent directors on the board have positive impact on modaraba sector entities of Pakistan. The evidence indicates significant positive moderating effect of higher ratio of non-executive directors (NEDs) in the relationship between growth opportunities and ROE/Tobin's Q. But insignificant moderating effect for: (a) fraction of issued certificates owned by executive directors and (b) officers' remuneration/compensation. The findings provide support for the positive contribution of board of directors' role of supervising and controlling managerial decisions that protect the interests of stakeholders and increases value of modaraba companies.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Investment opportunity set, Modaraba performance, Sharia’h compliant financial institution, Pakistan

JEL Classification: D21, G34, G23

Suggested Citation:

Sharif, Saqib, Investment Opportunity Set, Corporate Governance Practices and Performance of Modarabas (July 23, 2016). Sharif, S. (2019), Investment Opportunity Set, Corporate Governance Practices and Performance of Modarabas. Global Management Journal for Academic & Corporate Studies (GMJACS), Volume 9, Issue 1, pages 175-1781, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2817821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2817821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
W R Baber , S N Janakiraman , S.-H Kang
Investment opportunities and the structure of executive compensation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 318 Posted: 1996
Crossref
G P Baker
Growth, corporate policies, and the investment opportunity set
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 16 , issue 1-3 , p. 161 - 165 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R P Beatty , E J Zajac
Managerial incentives, monitoring, and risk bearing: A study of executive compensation, ownership, and board structure in initial public offerings
Administrative Science Journal , volume 39 , p. 313 - 335 Posted: 1994
Crossref
H Ben Barka , F Legendre
Effect of the board of directors and the audit committee on firm performance: a panel data analysis
Journal of Management & Governance, Forthcoming , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,948
RANK
325,744
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies