Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is the Social Relationship between Independent Auditors and Stakeholders?: Fiduciary Relationship

27 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2016

Ryuuichiro Kurihama

Aichi University

Date Written: August 2, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to reexamine the social relationship between independent auditors and stakeholders, and to clarify a new perspective on the social relationship between them. We have not been sufficiently studied the social relationship between independent auditors and stakeholders in spite of its significance in the past. Previous audit studies have regarded the social relationship between independent auditors and stakeholders as a trivial issue. However, we need to discuss why such a significant relationship has not been adequately studied, and to reexamine the social relationship between independent auditors and stakeholders. Because trust in independent audit, independent auditors’ power (authority), their responsibilities, their ethical duties and others are determined in the social relationship of independent audit, especially the social relationship between independent auditors and stakeholders as primary beneficiary. Thus, studying the social relationship between independent auditors and stakeholders is crucial to audit studies and practices.

In conclusion, this paper presents that the social relationship between independent auditors and stakeholders is a fiduciary relationship as a new perspective. This new perspective is necessary in order for us to deeply understand the fundamentals of today’s independent audit, to consider an appropriate response to audit deficiencies and audit failures, and to restore public trust.

Keywords: Independent audit, Independent auditors, Stakeholders, Fiduciary relationships, Fiduciary duties, Trust, Contractual or agency relationships, Shareholders, Homo economicus, Bounded rationality

Suggested Citation:

Kurihama, Ryuuichiro, What is the Social Relationship between Independent Auditors and Stakeholders?: Fiduciary Relationship (August 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2817212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2817212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Committee on Basic Auditing C oncepts 1973, A Statement of Basic Auditing Concepts
AAA
Commission on Auditor's Responsibility 1978
Conclusions, and Recommendations. AICPA
Special Committee on Standards of Professional Conduct for Certified Public Accountants 1986. Restructuring Professional Standards to Achieve Professional Excellence in a Changing Environment
AICPA
R Antle
The Auditor as Economic Agent
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 503 - 527 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,761
RANK
441,693
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies