Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Creative Culture on Real Earnings Management

53 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2016 Last revised: 2 Jan 2020

Ryan Guggenmos

University of South Carolina - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 30, 2019

Abstract

Creativity and innovation have been identified by senior executives as some of the most desired characteristics of corporate culture. Accordingly, managers strive to build these cultures within their organizations. However, research in psychology suggests that these attempts may have unintended negative consequences. In this study, I predict and find that managers in a more (versus less) innovative company culture will engage in higher levels of real earnings management (REM). I then test two construal level theory-based interventions designed to reduce REM. As I predict, I find that in more innovative corporate cultures an intervention that makes downside risk more salient reduces REM, but an intervention that encourages managers to consider the “big picture” impact of their decision reduces REM to a greater extent. Unexpectedly, I also find that the effect of the “big picture” intervention reverses in a less innovative corporate culture leading to an increase in REM. My findings contribute to the emerging accounting literature regarding REM. I also extend the psychology literature investigating the link between opportunistic behavior and creativity, as well as expand research into how interventions based on construal level theory can affect judgment and decision making in an accounting context.

Keywords: Creativity, Innovation, Real Earnings Management, Financial Reporting, Construal Level Theory

JEL Classification: M14, M41, O30

Suggested Citation:

Guggenmos, Ryan, The Effects of Creative Culture on Real Earnings Management (December 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2818499 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2818499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
T M Amabile
A Model of Creativity and Innovation in Organizations
Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 67 Posted: 1988
T M Amabile , S S Gryskiewicz
Creativity in the R&D Laboratory Posted: 1987
W R Baber , P M Fairfield , J A Haggard
The Effect of Concern about Reported Income on Discretionary Spending Decisions: The Case of Research and Development
The Accounting Review , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 818 - 847 Posted: 1991
A G Backoff , T Carpenter , J M Thayer
Auditing Complex Estimates: How Do Construal Level and Evidence Formatting Impact Auditors' Consideration of Inconsistent Evidence?
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 1798 - 1815 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
695
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,606
RANK
85,416
5 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies