Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship between Corporate Governance and Firm Performance: A Case Study in Bangladesh

International Scholar Journal of Accounting and Finance,Volume-2, No.1 (2016) 11-20

10 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2016

Md Habib

Independent

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This empirical study, the first of its kind, seeks to quantify the relationship between corporate governance and the performance of firms on DSE listed. As part of this study, the authors undertook an intensive review of literature to identify a range of elements that contribute to overall corporate governance. Using the generalized least square (GLS) technique on 77 listed firms trading over the period from 2010 to 2012. The findings of this study indicate that elements of corporate governance such as the presence of female board members, the duality of the CEO, the working experience of board members, and the compensation of board members have positive effects on the performance of firms, as measured by the return on asset (ROA). However, board size has a negative effect on the performance of firms. This study also presents that ownership of board members has a nonlinear relationship with a firm’s performance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, ownership structure, firm performance, listed firms

JEL Classification: M10, M14

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Md, Relationship between Corporate Governance and Firm Performance: A Case Study in Bangladesh (2016). International Scholar Journal of Accounting and Finance,Volume-2, No.1 (2016) 11-20 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2819099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R Adams , B Ferreira , D
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Akhtaruddin , M A Rouf
Corporate Governance, Cultural Factors and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Selected Companies in Bangladesh
Corporate Board: Role, Duties & Composition , volume 8 , p. 46 - 58 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Becker
Estimating the effects of large shareholders using a geographic instrument
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 46 , issue 4 , p. 907 - 942 Posted: 2011
Crossref
G Bhabra , S
Corporate Governance in Singapore: The Impact of Directors' Equity Ownership
Advances in Financial Economics , volume 8 , p. 29 - 46 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Adeyinka Tajudeen Hassan
Corporate Governance and Enterprise Success of Selected Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria
328 Pages · Posted: 16 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 211
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
730
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,687
RANK
80,212
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies