Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shaped by Booms and Busts: How the Economy Impacts CEO Careers and Management Styles

Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2016 Last revised: 1 Feb 2017

Antoinette Schoar

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 31, 2017

Abstract

We show that economic conditions when managers enter the labor market have long-run effects on their career paths and managerial styles. Managers who began their careers during recessions become CEOs more quickly, but at smaller firms. They also have more conservative styles, such as lower investment in capital expenditures and research and development, more cost cutting, and lower leverage and working capital needs. These recession effects appear to be largely driven by the characteristics of the CEO’s first job (recession CEOs tend to start in smaller or private firms), which suggests that the early work environment is important to the formation and selection of managers.

Keywords: Recession, Career Path, Management Style, Executive Labor Market

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, J24, M51

Suggested Citation:

Schoar, Antoinette and Zuo, Luo, Shaped by Booms and Busts: How the Economy Impacts CEO Careers and Management Styles (January 31, 2017). Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2819088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
T W Bates , K M Kahle , R M Stulz
Why do U.S. firms hold so much more cash than they used to
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 1985 - 2021 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Baron , D Burton , M Hannan
Engineering bureaucracy: The genesis of formal policies, positions, and structures in high-technology firms
Economics, and Organization , volume 15 , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Benmelech , C Frydman
Military CEOs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 117 , p. 43 - 59 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Bennedsen , K M Nielsen , F Pérez-González , D Wolfenzon
Inside the family firm: The role of families in succession decisions and performance
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 122 , p. 647 - 91 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ying Hao , Shaofei Wang , Robin K. Chou , Kuan‐Cheng Ko
Boom‐Baby CEOS, Career Experience, and Risk Taking: A Natural Experiment Using Chinese Ceos’ Growth Paths
International Review of Finance, Vol. 19, Issue 2, pp. 347-383, 2019 · 37 Pages · Posted: 26 May 2020 · Downloads: 5
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,704
RANK
43,123
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies