Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Structures and Corporate Internet Reporting in Africa: The Case of Kenya and Tanzania

40 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2016

Nelson Waweru

York University - School of Administrative Studies

Musa Mangena

University of Nottingham Business School

Riro G. Kamau

University of Nairobi

Date Written: August 8, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate corporate internet reporting (CIR) by Kenyan and Tanzanian listed companies and to examine whether the level of CIR is related to corporate governance structures. CIR is measured using a disclosure index. We collect data for a four-year period from companies listed on the Nairobi Stock Exchange and the Dar es Salam Stock Exchange. The data are analysed using panel data models. The results indicate that the level of CIR is high, with significant growth in CIR levels over the 4-year period in both countries. We show that CIR increases with audit committee independence and financial expertise. The effects of ownership concentration are country specific, with CIR increasing (decreasing) with ownership concentration in Tanzania and Kenya, respectively. The results demonstrate that effective governance structures matter for CIR on the African continent. Therefore, the current policy initiatives on improving governance and reporting practices in Africa are appropriately directed and need to be intensified to improve corporate governance and reporting quality in order to attract foreign investments. The study contributes to the limited research on governance structures and reporting practices in general, and CIR in particular, in Africa.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Ownership concentration, Board structures, Corporate internet reporting, Kenya and Tanzania

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Waweru, Nelson Maina and Mangena, Musa and Kamau, Riro G., Corporate Governance Structures and Corporate Internet Reporting in Africa: The Case of Kenya and Tanzania (August 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2820283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2820283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A G Abayo , C A Adams , C B Roberts
Measuring the quality of corporate disclosure in less developed countries: The case of Tanzania
Journal of International Accounting Auditing and Taxation , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 145 - 158 Posted: 1993
Crossref
O H Abdelsalam , D L Street
Corporate governance and the timeliness of corporate internet reporting by U.K. listed companies
Journal of International Accounting and Taxation , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 130 Posted: 2007
Crossref
N M Abughazaleh , Qasim , C Roberts
The determinants of Web-based investor relations activities by companies operating in an emerging economy
Journal of Applied Business Research , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 225 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A G Ahearne , W L Griever , F E Warnock
Information costs and home bias: an analysis of US holdings of foreign equities
Journal of International Economics , volume 62 , p. 313 - 336 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
900
RANK
765,896
3 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies