Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Pulchronomics and Appearance Discrimination

Asian Review of Accounting, 2021, Vol. 29 No. 3, pp. 443-473.

51 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2016 Last revised: 9 Sep 2021

Jung Yeun Kim

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers University, Camden

Linna Shi

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Nan Zhou

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Date Written: July 3, 2016

Abstract

Pulchronomics is the economics study of beauty. Given the importance of CEOs in wealth creation, we study CEO pulchronomics by first examining whether a beauty premium exists in CEO compensation. Since earnings gaps need to be accounted for differences in productivity, we also investigate whether CEO pulchritude has any effect on productivity. Due to the productivity enhancing effects of beauty, Mobius and Rosenblat (2006) argue that researchers need to identify a task that requires a true skill which is uncorrelated with physical attractiveness. We identify three CEO tasks — accounting, operations, and corporate social responsibility — that could imperfectly meet or partially satisfy this criterion. We measure CEO pulchritude via the AnaFace facial beauty analysis, which uses facial symmetry, facial structure, and the golden ratio to calculate a person’s beauty. This symmetry-based methodology is well supported by research in evolutionary biology and computer science. We find that attractive CEOs earn higher salaries, but not incentive pays, than do unattractive CEOs. Nevertheless, CEO pulchritude bears no effect on firms’ accounting, operating and social performance. Since the CEO beauty premium is not supported by the superior productivity of those attractive CEOs, we provide evidence that appearance discrimination in CEO compensation may not be justified.

Keywords: pulchronomics, beauty premium, accounting, corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: J71, M14, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jung Yeun and Shi, Linna and Zhou, Nan, CEO Pulchronomics and Appearance Discrimination (July 3, 2016). Asian Review of Accounting, 2021, Vol. 29 No. 3, pp. 443-473., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2822318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Jun Guo , Jung Yeun Kim , Sungsoo Kim , Nan Zhou
CEO Beauty and Management Guidance
Asian Review of Accounting, 2022, Vol. 30 No. 1, pp. 152-173. · 44 Pages · Posted: 4 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 46
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maggie Hu , Yanting Wu , Tingyu Zhou
The Beauty Trap: Unexpected Costs of Agent Attractiveness
45 Pages · Posted: 26 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 10 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 68
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,420
RANK
386,825
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies