Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Career Concerns and 'Unpaid' Executives

AAA 2017 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting

52 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2016 Last revised: 24 May 2018

Hui Chen

University of Zurich

Wei Luo

The University of Hong Kong - HKU - Faculty of Business and Economics - Accounting Area

Naomi S. Soderstrom

University of Melbourne

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 21, 2018

Abstract

A significant portion of CEOs in publicly-listed Chinese state-owned enterprises receive zero pay from the companies for which they work. Instead, they are paid directly by their controlling shareholder who can be the Chinese government or parent firms controlled by the Chinese government. While their actual pay is unobservable, it is known to be low and contain few performance-based incentives. We explore how these parent-paid executives are motivated and whether the outcomes of this unusual incentive differ from conventional compensation. Consistent with career concerns as their main incentive, we find that these CEOs have a significantly higher probability of future promotion than other CEOs. We also conduct an event study using the Split Share Structure Reform in 2005. The reform liberalized the Chinese stock market and enhanced the role of the market mechanisms that potentially replaced promotion incentives in executive compensation contracts. Our evidence is generally consistent with a reduction in the strength of promotion incentives following the reform. Further analyses indicate that, compared to peers that directly pay their CEOs, firms with parent-paid CEOs have higher return on assets and asset growth, and they experience less tunneling by their shareholders.

Keywords: Career concerns, promotion, Chinese SOEs, executive compensation

JEL Classification: G30; J30; M12; M52

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Hui and Luo, Wei and Soderstrom, Naomi S., Career Concerns and 'Unpaid' Executives (May 21, 2018). AAA 2017 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2822979 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2822979
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
C.-E Bai , L C Xu
Incentives for CEOs with multitasks: evidence from Chinese state-owned enterprises
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 33 , p. 517 - 539 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C.-E Bai , J Lu , Z Tao
The multitask theory of state enterprise reform: empirical evidence from China
American Economic Review , volume 96 , issue 2 , p. 353 - 357 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Bertrand , P Mehta , S Mullainathan
Ferreting Out Tunneling: An Application to Indian Business Groups
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , p. 121 - 169 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Sharon Belenzon , Ulya Tsolmon
Market Frictions and the Competitive Advantage of Internal Labor Markets
Strategic Management Journal , volume 37 , p. 1280 - 1303 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Zonghao Chen , Michael O'Connor Keefe
Board of Director Compensation in China: To Pay or Not to Pay? How Much to Pay?
46 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2017 · Last revised: 20 May 2018 · Downloads: 113
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,378
RANK
235,846
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies