Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Consistent Capital Market Communication: Evidence from Germany

34 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2016 Last revised: 23 Aug 2016

Stephanie Jana

ESCP Business School Berlin

Daniel Voll

Handelshochschule Leipzig (HHL)

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Date Written: August 15, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the level of consistency in using financial key performance indicators (KPIs) in capital market communication in Germany and examines specific determinants of consistent KPI reporting. To measure such consistency, the study reports three consistency indices that were uniquely developed for this pa-per. The indices measure the consistent KPI reporting of a sample of German listed companies from 2009 to 2014 and consist of up to 396 firm year observations. These indices indicate a high level of inconsistency in the reporting behaviour of German companies in the management report, the annual report and capital market communication. The results range from 36% to 48% consistency, indicating room for improvement. The results of a random effects regression analysis report for all indices that the level of consistency increased significantly in 2013 and 2014. The study shows that profitable firms and firms with an above average number of KPIs report more consistently than other firms. This paper contributes to the literature on disclosure topics in accounting by introducing KPI consistency indices as a proxy of disclosure quality and demonstrates that the KPI reporting behaviour of German firms lacks consistency.

Keywords: Disclosure, Consistency, Key performance indicators, Germany

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Jana, Stephanie and Voll, Daniel and Zülch, Henning, Determinants of Consistent Capital Market Communication: Evidence from Germany (August 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2823404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2823404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations Between Corporate Characteristics and Disclosure Levels in Annual Reports
The British Accounting Review , volume 31 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
K Ahmed , D Nicholls
The Impact of Non-financial Company Characteristics on Mandatory Disclosure Compliance in Developing Countries: the Case of Bangladesh
The International Journal of Education and Research , volume 29 , p. 62 - 77 Posted: 1994
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate Mandatory Disclosure Practices in Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , issue 4 , p. 399 - 422 Posted: 2005
Crossref
K A Apostolos
Factors on Voluntary Accounting Information by Greek Companies. Spudai / University of Piraeus: journal of economics and business , volume 50 , p. 87 - 109 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,601
RANK
392,891
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies