Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
DRIVERS OF PUBLIC OPINION ON THE ACCEPTABILITY OF DISTORTING PERFORMANCE MEASURES

50 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2016 Last revised: 14 Nov 2023

Jeremiah W. Bentley

University of Oklahoma - School of Accounting

Matthew J. Bloomfield

The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Tamara A. Lambert

Lehigh University

Date Written: July 17, 2024

Abstract

Agents often inflate measured performance by distorting operating decisions (e.g., real earnings management) and/or reporting decisions (e.g., accruals management). Across four studies, we find that public judgments of distortion’s acceptability largely reflect assessments of how harmful and norm-violating the distortion is. Judgments of operating distortion primarily reflect assessments of harm, while judgments of reporting distortion primarily reflect assessments of norm violation. These results are consistent with the Theory of Dyadic Morality (Gray, Waytz, and Young 2012; Schein and Gray 2017). We also find that those who perceive an accounting system as more unfairly withholding an agent’s bonus assess distortion (especially reporting distortion) to be less norm-violating. Those who perceive the performance measure as less appropriate for capturing the value of performance to stakeholders assess distortion (especially operating distortion) to be more harmful. Assessments of distortions’ harm and norm violation explain a substantial portion of the variation in acceptability judgments.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Real Activities Management, Ethics, Survey Research, Experimental Research, Operating Distortion, Reporting Distortion, Theory of Dyadic Morality

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bentley, Jeremiah W. and Bloomfield, Matthew J. and Bloomfield, Robert J. and Lambert, Tamara A., DRIVERS OF PUBLIC OPINION ON THE ACCEPTABILITY OF DISTORTING PERFORMANCE MEASURES (July 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2823705 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2823705
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
J E Adler
Lying, deceiving, or falsely implicating
The Journal of Philosophy , volume 94 , issue 9 , p. 435 - 452 Posted: 1997
W S Albrecht
Fraud in government entities: The perpetrators and the types of fraud
Government Finance Review , volume 7 , issue 6 , p. 27 - 30 Posted: 1991
K Arnold
Judge Challenges $2.5 Billion Boeing 737 Max Plea Deal After Outcry From Victims' Families. The Dallas Morning News Posted: 2022-10-21
H S Asay , R D Guggenmos , K Kadous , L Koonce , R Libby
Theory testing and process evidence in accounting experiments
The Accounting Review , volume 97 , issue 6 , p. 23 - 43 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
870
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,536
RANK
63,456
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies