Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Associated with Internal Audit Effectiveness: Evidence from Greece

Drogalas, G., Karagiorgos T. & Arampatzis K. (2015). Factors associated with Internal Audit Effectiveness: Evidence from Greece. Journal of Accounting and Taxation, 7(7), 113 - 122

Posted: 16 Aug 2016

George Drogalas

University of Macedonia - Department of Business Administration

Theofanis Karagiorgos

University of Macedonia

Konstantinos Arabatzis

University of Macedonia - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

The current study investigates the specific factors associated with internal audit effectiveness in the Greek business environment. Empirical evidence was collected by means of a mailed survey. Factor Analysis and regression analysis are used in order to illustrate the gathered information. The findings indicate that the main factors affecting internal audit effectiveness are: (1) quality of internal audit, (2) competence of internal audit team, (3) independence of internal audit and (4) management support. The results also reveal that independence of internal audit is the foundation of internal audit effectiveness, as it is the most crucial factor in our model. Finally, the paper concludes that internal audit is of major importance for Greek business.

Keywords: Internal audit, Auditing, effectiveness of internal audit, Accounting, Greece

Suggested Citation:

Drogalas, George and Karagiorgos, Theofanis and Arabatzis, Konstantinos, Factors Associated with Internal Audit Effectiveness: Evidence from Greece (2015). Drogalas, G., Karagiorgos T. & Arampatzis K. (2015). Factors associated with Internal Audit Effectiveness: Evidence from Greece. Journal of Accounting and Taxation, 7(7), 113 - 122 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2823028
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,381
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies