Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating Discretion in Executive Compensation: Extracting Private Information from Valuation Allowance Decisions

Review of Accounting Studies (forthcoming)

37 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2016 Last revised: 13 Dec 2022

Katharine D. Drake

University of Arizona - Department of Accounting

Ellen Engel

University of Illinois at Chicago - College of Business Administration

Melissa Martin

University of Illinois at Chicago

Date Written: December 30, 2020

Abstract

We investigate how boards incorporate private information about managerial performance in compensation and turnover decisions. Building from the literature documenting that loss firms’ publicly available valuation allowance (VA) disclosures contain value-relevant private information, we show that the decision of whether or not to record a VA also captures contract-relevant private information. We develop an approach to extract a private, firm-specific, time-varying signal of managerial performance by inferring a more positive (negative) private signal when the VA decision suggests the firm expects the loss to be transitory (persistent). Our empirical analyses rely on a joint test of whether the VA decision reflects a private signal of managerial performance and whether the board uses this private information in contracting. Confirming our hypothesis, we document significantly larger discretionary compensation for transitory loss-firm CEOs, relative to persistent loss-firms. We also show that the VA decision informs the weighting of earnings in determining CEO compensation. Additionally, we provide evidence that the likelihood of CEO turnover is lower in transitory loss-firm years relative to persistent loss-firms. Overall, extracting private information from the VA decision provides an innovative way to extend our understanding of how boards use discretion in contracting.

Keywords: executive compensation, loss firms, valuation allowance

JEL Classification: J3, M41, H25

Suggested Citation:

Drake, Katharine D. and Engel, Ellen and Martin, Melissa, Investigating Discretion in Executive Compensation: Extracting Private Information from Valuation Allowance Decisions (December 30, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies (forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2824044 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2824044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
W R Baber , S.-H Kang , K R Kumar
Accounting earnings and executive compensation: The role of earnings persistence
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 193 Posted: 1998
C C Bauman , M P Bauman , R F Halsey
Do firms use the deferred tax asset valuation allowance to manage earnings
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 23 , p. 27 - 48 Posted: 2001
J L Brown , K D Drake , M A Martin
Compensation in the post-FIN 48 period: The case of contracting on tax performance and uncertainty
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 151 Posted: 2016
R M Bushman , R J Indjejikian , A Smith
CEO compensation: The role of individual performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 161 - 193 Posted: 1996
Load more
1 Citations
Mary Cowx , Jennifer L. Glenn , Patrick Kielty , Sean T. McGuire
How Do Hedge Fund Activists Use and Affect Financial Reporting of Income Taxes? Evidence from the Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets
50 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2024 · Last revised: 2 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 120
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,750
RANK
252,662
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies