Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Ability and Actual Share Reacquisitions in Open-Market Repurchase Programs

44 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2016

Joseph Zhang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jian Cao

Florida Atlantic University

Yun Cheng

State University of West Georgia

Joanna Golden

University of Memphis - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 15, 2016

Abstract

We investigate the role of managers in open market repurchase (OMR) transactions by examining how managerial ability influences capacity and incentives to follow through on announced repurchase plans. OMR announcements have recently come under scrutiny for lacking credibility. Managers are unlikely to actually repurchase stocks due to uncertainties in forecasting future earnings and cash flows. Although managers’ ability to adapt to cash flow and earnings variability is a critical component of the repurchase decision process, they are not directly observable by external stakeholders. We find repurchase completion rate (i.e., the amount of actual share reacquisitions as a percentage of the announced amount) increases with managerial ability consistent with incentives for reputation protection. Further, we find that the effect of managerial ability on completion rate is more pronounced for firms that have more uncertain cash flows but maintain smoother earnings streams. These findings indicate that completion rate is potentially an observable signal of managers’ broader ability to adapt to cash and earnings variability. Finally, we show that the effect of managerial ability is more pronounced for better-governed firms, suggesting rent extraction cannot explain our results.

Keywords: open market stock repurchases; managerial ability; repurchase completion

JEL Classification: G32; G35; M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Joseph and Cao, Jian and Cheng, Yun and Golden, Joanna, Managerial Ability and Actual Share Reacquisitions in Open-Market Repurchase Programs (August 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2824013 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2824013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
R Aggarwal , J Cao , F Chen
Information environment, dividend changes, and signaling: evidence from ADR firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 403 - 431 Posted: 2012
H Almeida , V Fos , M Kronlund
The real effects of share repurchases
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 168 - 185 Posted: 2016
B Baik , D Farber , S Lee
CEO ability and management earnings forecasts , volume 28 , p. 1645 - 1668 Posted: 2011
L Banyi , E Dyl , Kahle
Errors in estimating share repurchases
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , p. 460 - 474 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
62
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies