Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Institutional Distance on Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Foreign Institutional Investors

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2016 Last revised: 3 Jun 2021

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Incheol Kim

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American) - College of Business and Entrepreneurship

Haimeng Teng

Penn State Harrisburg

Qiang Wu

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance; Hong Kong Polytechnic University - Faculty of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: Mar 26, 2021

Abstract

We find that foreign institutional investors (FIIs) reduce their investee firms’ tax avoidance. We provide evidence that the effect is driven by the institutional distance between FIIs’ home countries/regions and host countries/regions. Specifically, we find that the effect is driven by the influence of FIIs from countries/regions with high-quality institutions (i.e., common law, high government effectiveness, and high regulatory quality) on investee firms located in countries/regions with low-quality institutions. Furthermore, we show that the effect is concentrated on FIIs with little experience in the investee countries/regions or FIIs with stronger monitoring incentives. Finally, we find that FIIs are more likely to vote against management if the firm has a higher level of tax avoidance.


Keywords: Institutional Distance; Foreign Institutional Ownership; Tax Avoidance

JEL Classification: G23, G32, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Iftekhar and Kim, Incheol and Teng, Haimeng and Wu, Qiang, The Effect of Institutional Distance on Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Foreign Institutional Investors (Mar 26, 2021). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2824852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2824852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "wall street walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 2445 - 2485 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
C W Anderson , M Fedenia , M Hirschey , H Skiba
Cultural influences on home bias and international diversification by institutional investors
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 35 , p. 916 - 934 Posted: 2011
Crossref
T J Atwood , M S Drake , J N Myers , L A Myers
Home country tax system characteristics and corporate tax avoidance: International evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , p. 1831 - 1860 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,024
RANK
184,062
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies