Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Leader Effects in Competition Among Teams: Evidence from a Field Intervention

52 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2016 Last revised: 30 Jan 2021

Pablo Casas-Arce

Arizona State University (ASU) - W.P. Carey School of Business

Francisco de Asis Martinez-Jerez

Cornell University; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: January 29, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates the factors that make teams successful in competitive environments. In collaboration with a medium-sized Latin-American bank, we designed a series of contests among the branches of the bank, in which we varied the prize structure of the tournaments (in some tournaments, the prizes were shared among all branch employees, while in other tournaments there was an additional prize for the branch manager). We also surveyed the branch managers and employees prior to our intervention to measure the team characteristics and the leadership style of the managers, and we evaluate the pictures that teams post on the intranet to measure their creativity and desire to have fun. We find that more creative and less jovial teams, as well as teams with a manager that encourages teamwork, perform better in the tournament. However, the effects are reversed when the tournament awards a prize to the branch manager. The results are consistent with leadership prizes encouraging managers to monitor employees more closely, but at the same time, hampering their efforts to build team spirit.

Keywords: Tournaments, Teams, Leadership, Culture

JEL Classification: M41, M52, D86, J33

Suggested Citation:

Casas-Arce, Pablo and Martinez-Jerez, Francisco de Asis, Leader Effects in Competition Among Teams: Evidence from a Field Intervention (January 29, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2824108 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2824108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
D Ackerberg , M Botticini
Endogenous Matching and the Empirical Determinants of Contract Form
Journal of Political Economy , volume 110 , issue 3 , p. 564 - 591 Posted: 2002
Crossref
K Badura , E Grijalva , B Galvin , B Owens , D Joseph
Motivation to Lead: A MetaAnalysis and Distal-Proximal Model of Motivation and Leadership
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 105 , issue 4 , p. 331 - 354 Posted: 2020
Crossref
O Bandiera , I Barankay , I Rasul
Incentives for Managers and Inequality among Workers: Evidence from a Firm-Level Experiment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 122 , issue 2 , p. 729 - 773 Posted: 2007
Crossref
O Bandiera , I Barankay , I Rasul
Social Connections and Incentives in the Workplace: Evidence from Personnel Data
Econometrica , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 1047 - 1094 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
909
RANK
375,436
3 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies