Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO co-option and CEO compensation

Forthcoming in Management Science

Posted: 17 Aug 2016 Last revised: 10 Oct 2019

Shane S. Dikolli

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

John C. Heater

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

William J. Mayew

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

Mani Sethuraman

Cornell University - Department of Accounting; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: September 19, 2019

Abstract

We study whether relative power in the CEO-CFO relationship influences CEO compensation. To operationalize relative power of a CEO over a CFO, we define CFO co-option as the appointment of a CFO after a CEO assumes office. We find that CFO co-option is associated with a CEO pay premium of about 10%, which is concentrated more in the early years of the co-opted CFO’s tenure and in components of compensation that vary with the achievement of analyst-based earnings targets. Our evidence also indicates that a primary channel through which CEO power over a co-opted CFO yields the achievement of earnings targets is the use of earnings management to inflate earnings. Co-opted CFOs rely primarily on using discretionary accruals to manage earnings prior to the Sarbanes-Oxley regulatory intervention and switch to real activities manipulation afterwards. The evidence thus suggests that the form of earnings management depends on costs imposed on the CFO to inflate earnings.

Keywords: CFO, CEO, Executive Compensation, Monitoring, Financial Reporting, Managerial Power, Earnings Management

JEL Classification: M41, M52, G30

Suggested Citation:

Dikolli, Shane and Heater, John C. and Mayew, William J. and Sethuraman, Mani, CFO co-option and CEO compensation (September 19, 2019). Forthcoming in Management Science, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2824133 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2824133
 Not Available for Download
0 References
2 Citations
Viktoria Diser , Ulrich Schäfer
The Allocation of Responsibility between CEO and CFO for Financial Misreporting: Implications for Earnings Quality
30 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2017 · Downloads: 210
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shane Dikolli , Viktoria Diser , Christian Hofmann , Thomas Pfeiffer
CEO Power and Relative Performance Evaluation
AAA 2014 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper · 43 Pages · Posted: 20 Aug 2013 · Last revised: 27 May 2016 · Downloads: 286
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,565
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies