Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Minimizing Corporate Social Irresponsibility to Maximize Social Welfare

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 71-91, 2016

21 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2016

Christina Kleinau

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Christian Kretzmann

Handelshochschule Leipzig (HHL)

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This paper turns traditional ideas about the responsibility of corporations upside down by arguing that it is not conducive to aim to maximize corporate social responsibility (CSR). Instead, corporations should embrace their social responsibility by working to minimize corporate social irresponsibility (CSI). It is more straightforward to minimize tangible sources of business and/or reputational risk, such as environmental damage or child labor in the supply chain, than to maximize a construct for which a generally accepted definition is still pending. What’s more, this enables a corporation to use its core business competencies and expertise to maximize social welfare by protecting those societal resources which are relevant to its own value creation process. Thereby, the demand that corporations accept responsibility for a broad range of stakeholders is met but the importance of profits as the fundamental measure of a corporation’s capability to create value for society is not undermined. Failing to introduce this conception means maintaining the status-quo whereby the net societal benefit of corporations’ CSR activities is questionable and the opportunity costs are high as CSI issues and the detrimental effects thereof on corporations’ core business and societal stakeholders will remain unmanaged.

Keywords: Business Ethics, Corporate Mission, Corporate Social Irresponsibility, Corporate Social Responsibility, Incentives, Risk Management, Shareholder Value Principle, Sustainability

JEL Classification: M14, D60, G38

Suggested Citation:

Kleinau, Christina and Kretzmann, Christian and Zülch, Henning, Minimizing Corporate Social Irresponsibility to Maximize Social Welfare (2016). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 71-91, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2825469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
RANK
371,780
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies