Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Assignments and Audit Quality in the United States

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2016 Last revised: 14 Jul 2018

Hye Seung (Grace) Lee

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Albert Nagy

John Carroll University - Boler School of Business

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 11, 2018

Abstract

This paper examines the demand and supply side factors associated with audit partner selection and assignment in the United States. First, we examine whether audit partner gender and experience are associated with board and management gender and experience. Second, we investigate whether engagement audit quality varies with audit partner gender and experience, controlling for selection effects. The results indicate that companies with more gender-diverse boards of directors and top management teams are more likely to have a female lead audit partner. In addition, the experience of the client’s board is positively associated with the experience of the lead audit partner. In terms of audit quality, we find that higher audit fees are positively associated with female and more experienced audit partners. The results also provide weak evidence that audit partner gender is associated with audit quality as measured by abnormal accruals and restatements. We do not find an association between partner experience and audit quality. Our results shed light on the important role that partner characteristics play in the demand and supply side of audit quality. Partner characteristics also have implications for future research on the audit assignment process in the U.S., particularly in light of the new availability of audit partner identities in the PCAOB Form AP filings.

Keywords: Audit Partner Experience, Audit Partner Gender, Audit Fees, Audit Quality

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Hye Seung (Grace) and Nagy, Albert and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, Audit Partner Assignments and Audit Quality in the United States (June 11, 2018). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2825357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2825357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
M Abdolmohammadi , A Wright
An examination of the effects of experience and task complexity on audit judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 1987
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Binay Kumar Adhikari , Anup Agrawal , James Malm
Do Women Managers Keep Firms out of Trouble? Evidence from Corporate Litigation and Policies
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, 2019 Pages: 64 Posted: 7 Jul 2015 Last revised: 25 Sep 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J C Anderson , E N Johnson , P M J Reckers
Perceived effects of gender, family structure, and physical appearance on career progression in public accounting: A research note. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 483 - 491 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,068
RANK
34,531
46 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies