Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does CEO's Holding of Vested Options Measure Overconfidence?

Posted: 18 Aug 2016 Last revised: 29 Aug 2016

Ali Bayat

University of Aberdeen

Reza Salehnejad

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Peter Kawalek

Alliance Manchester Business School

Date Written: August 17, 2016

Abstract

Option-based measures of overconfidence are widely used as proxies for overconfidence in corporate finance. Overexposure of a CEO's wealth to the firm's idiosyncratic risk is taken as a sign of CEO overconfidence. The literature has used the measures to study the effect of managerial overconfidence on corporate investment, financial policy, innovation and merger and acquisition. The belief is that overconfident CEOs behave differently. We trace CEOs across firms to investigate whether option exercise decisions correlate with firm characteristics. We find that a CEO's decision to hold or exercise vested options is considerably driven by firm and market conditions. Our analysis casts doubt on the view that repeated holding of in-the-money options solely captures overconfidence.

Keywords: Managerial Biases, CEO Overconfidence, CEO Option-exercise Decision

JEL Classification: G3, G02

Suggested Citation:

Bayat, Ali and Salehnejad, Reza and Kawalek, Peter, Does CEO's Holding of Vested Options Measure Overconfidence? (August 17, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2825027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2825027
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,698
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies