Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investor Horizons and Employee Satisfaction: A Test of the 'Long-Term Perspective' Vision of Corporate Social Responsibility

46 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2016 Last revised: 3 May 2018

Alexandre Garel

Audencia Business School

Arthur Romec

Toulouse Business School

Date Written: April 24, 2018

Abstract

This paper analyzes the relationship between investor horizons and employee satisfaction. Because employee satisfaction generates substantial value over the long run, it is well suited to provide an empirical test of Bénabou and Tirole (2010)’s “long-term perspective” vision of CSR. We provide two complementary pieces of evidence supporting the idea that when CSR is about maximizing intertemporal profits, long-term investors play a critical role in promoting CSR. First, we find that long-term investor ownership is associated with employee satisfaction even after controlling for socially-responsible investor ownership. Importantly, long-term investor ownership is positively associated with both employee-friendly initiatives, which represent inputs conducive to employee satisfaction, and employee satisfaction itself measured by the presence in the list of the “Best Companies to Work for in America”. Second, unlike socially-responsible investor ownership, long-term investor ownership is not positively related to any other dimensions of CSR (e.g., environment, community, and product). Additional tests show that the association between investor horizons and employee satisfaction is not primarily due to a selection effect but rather reflects a direct influence of long-term investors.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Employee Satisfaction, Human Capital, Investor Horizons, Institutional Investors, Intangibles

JEL Classification: G23, G32, J28, M14

Suggested Citation:

Garel, Alexandre and Romec, Arthur, Investor Horizons and Employee Satisfaction: A Test of the 'Long-Term Perspective' Vision of Corporate Social Responsibility (April 24, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2826418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2826418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
The American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D G Allen , P C Bryant , J M Vardaman
Retaining talent: Replacing misconceptions with evidence-based strategies
The Academy of Management Perspectives , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 48 - 64 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of financial markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
K.-H Bae , J.-K Kang , J Wang
Employee treatment and firm leverage: A test of the stakeholder theory of capital structure
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 130 - 153 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Alexandre Garel , Arthur Romec
The Resilience of French Companies to the COVID-19 Crisis
39 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 683
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
295
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,229
RANK
235,846
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies