Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Education Background and Earnings Management of Chairmen and Senior Managers

The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 10 (2) p. 91-108

18 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2016

Hsiang-Tsai Chiang

Feng Chia University

Shu-Lin Lin

Hsiuping University of Science and Technology

Li-Jen He

Asia University

Yi-Ting Sung

Feng Chia University

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

In this study, we investigated how chairmen of the board (COBs) and senior managers, who have professional education background, implement earnings management based on their professional knowledge. The empirical results showed that, regardless of whether COBs are concurrently holding positions as chief executive officers (CEOs), varying degrees of earnings management were exercised as they applied their professional education background and adopted discretionary accruals (DAs) or manipulating operating cash flows. Because DAs demonstrate self-reverse effect as accounting principles, they should be used cautiously and conservatively to manage earnings. COBs and senior managers are individuals who manage earnings. When COBs have accounting background and concurrently hold CEO positions, they exhibit the highest degree of earnings management. Directors and external investors must pay additional attention when COBs concurrently serve as CEOs, because this enables them to manipulate the financial statements of companies based on their professional knowledge.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Discretionary Accrual (DA), Real Earnings Management (REM), Professional Education Background

JEL Classification: M1, M14

Suggested Citation:

Chiang, Hsiang-Tsai and Lin, Shu-Lin and He, Li-Jen and Sung, Yi-Ting, Professional Education Background and Earnings Management of Chairmen and Senior Managers (2016). The International Journal of Business and Finance Research, v. 10 (2) p. 91-108, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2826118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M P Arena , M V Alves-Braga
The discretionary effect of CEOs and board chairs on corporate governance structures
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 21 , p. 121 - 131 Posted: 2013
Crossref
M E Balta , A Woods , K Dickson
The influence of Boards of directors' characteristics on strategic decision-making: evidence from Greek companies
Journal of Applied Business Research , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 57 - 68 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
Relative valuation roles of equity book value and net income as a function of financial health
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 34 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,027
RANK
175,517
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies