Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Practices and Standards: External and Internal Auditors' Perceptions on Compliance in an Emerging Economy

Prepared for the American Accounting Association Annual Meeting, New York, U.S.A, 2016

34 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2016

Mohamed A. Hegazy

Department of Accounting, The American University in Cairo

Marwa Farghaly

American University in Cairo

Date Written: August 10, 2016

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to investigate differences in the degree of usage and compliance with the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) International Standards for the Professional Practices of Internal Auditing (Standards) by the Egyptian listed companies’ internal audit departments. This paper shows the differences among the external and the internal auditors’ perceptions concerning the level of use and compliance with these standards.

Design/methodology/approach – Survey based on questionnaires sent to the internal auditors and the external auditors of the Egyptian listed firms registered in the Egyptian Institute of Directors indicator of corporate governance in 2010. This survey was conducted in March 2014 about various topics relating to internal auditing which were summarized in the Common Body of Knowledge 2006 database in relation to compliance with the IIA standards that are important to enhance its role in corporate governance.

Findings – The research shows significant levels of variation in the responses concerning usage and compliance with Professional Practices standards of the internal and external auditors. Standards 1100 “Independence and objectivity” and 2100 “Nature of work” show variations in relation to compliance among survey respondents while Standards 1300, “Quality Assurance and Improvement Program” respondents indicated high levels of non-compliance. The findings provide evidence that there are no minimal qualifications level required to appoint the internal auditors and low levels of interactions between the internal auditors and the external auditors.

Originality/value – According to the best of authors’ knowledge, this study is among the first that surveyed the status of the use of the IIA Standards in the Egyptian listed firms characterized by having good corporate governance practices from the perspectives of the internal and external auditors of the same companies. This study also investigated the importance of ensuring that the “spirit” of the IIA standards is adhered to rather than the mere compliance with their “letters”.

Limitations – The research study relied on a sample of companies for investigating the level of compliance with IIAs standards as well as selected some of the IIA standards for usage and compliance assessments.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, IIA Standards, External Auditing and Internal Auditing Practices

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Hegazy, Mohamed A. and Farghaly, Marwa, Internal Audit Practices and Standards: External and Internal Auditors' Perceptions on Compliance in an Emerging Economy (August 10, 2016). Prepared for the American Accounting Association Annual Meeting, New York, U.S.A, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2828844 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2828844
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M J Abdol Mohammadi
Factors Associated with the Use of and Compliance with the IIA Standards: A Study of Anglo-culture CAEs
International Journal of Auditing , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 42 Posted: 2009
Crossref
P Burnaby , S Hass , A Mohammadi
A survey of internal auditors to establish the scope of the Common Body of Knowledge study
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 8 , p. 854 - 868 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P Burnaby , M Mohammadi , S Hass , G Sarens , M Allegrini
Usage of Internal Auditing Standards by companies in the United States and select European countries
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 9 , p. 835 - 860 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Fielding Greg Burton , Scott A. Emett , Chad A. Simon , David A. Wood
Corporate Managers’ Reliance on Internal Auditor Recommendations
Burton, F.G., Emmett, S., C.A. Simon, and D.A. Wood. 2012. Corporate Managers’ Reliance on Internal Auditor Recommendations. Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory 31 (2): 151-166., Posted: 7 Mar 2011 Last revised: 20 May 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,468
RANK
144,509
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies