Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Case Study: Analysis of Corporate Governance and Management Control at Kendallville Bank

International Journal of Applied Economic Studies 4 (3), pp. 14-20

8 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2016

Paul Eisenberg

University of Derby; University of Portsmouth

Date Written: June 16, 2016

Abstract

The present paper addresses the case study of a financial institution, the Kendallville Bank, developed by The Anti-Fraud Collaboration. The constituents of the Collaboration are the Center for Audit Quality, Financial Executives International, the National Association of Corporate Directors, and The Institute of Internal Auditors. These organisations are concerned with financial reporting fraud deterrence and detection. The case study approaches financial reporting fraud at a multidimensional level. It explores the corporate governance arrangements and management control instruments at place at the Kendallville Bank. The findings are discussed against the theoretical framework of the Agency Theory and the Stewardship Theory. Shortcomings of the arrangements are identified and safeguards are recommended on the background of international corporate governance best practice and academic literature. The risks arising from corporate governance weaknesses are addressed through various risk control procedures. Culture control is acknowledged as a major instrument to improve effectiveness and performance of the bank through a shift in the interpersonal interaction of the Board members, the executive team and the auditors.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Committees, Auditor Ethics, Agency Theory, Stewardship Theory, Change Risk, Culture Control

JEL Classification: A23, G21, G31, G34, M12, M14, M42, M53

Suggested Citation:

Eisenberg, Paul, Case Study: Analysis of Corporate Governance and Management Control at Kendallville Bank (June 16, 2016). International Journal of Applied Economic Studies 4 (3), pp. 14-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2829370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
AICPA Code of Professional Conduct Posted: 2015
J Arthus , D Busenitz , L , W
The Boundaries and Limitations of Agency Theory and Stewardship Theory in the Venture Capitalist/Entrepreneur Relationship
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 145 - 162 Posted: 2003
Crossref
London: BPP Learning Media Ltd. Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) (2012b). Audit and Assurance
Crossref
B Bader , S Hava , K Gu , F Lev , B
Busy Directors are Detrimental to Corporate Governance
The right stuff, the right way. 10 ways to improve board meetings. Great Boards , p. 5 - 8 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
897
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,724
RANK
60,828
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies