Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings and Balance-Sheet Properties and the Interplay of Tax Incentives and Tax Enforcement

Forthcoming in International Journal of Economics and Accounting

Posted: 26 Aug 2016 Last revised: 28 Oct 2020

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Date Written: October 26, 2020

Abstract

This paper analyzes the joint association of tax incentives and tax law enforcement strictness on private firms' earnings and balance sheet properties. It answers a call for additional research on why "there is (...) substantial within-country variation in managers' incentives to [manage] earnings" (LaFond et al. (2007), p. 14). There is evidence that tax laws in practice are enacted to a different extent within a country's supposedly homogenous legal framework. The key results are that stricter tax law enforcement impairs managers' ability or willingness to engage in income-decreasing accrual earnings management. On the downside, managers instead seem to resort to real earnings Management choices which are associated with potentially negative long-term real business impact but covered by the business judgment rule.

Keywords: Financial reporting, Tax incentives, tax enforcement

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Loy, Thomas R., Earnings and Balance-Sheet Properties and the Interplay of Tax Incentives and Tax Enforcement (October 26, 2020). Forthcoming in International Journal of Economics and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2829348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2829348
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,064
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies