Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analyst by Any Other Surname: Surname Favorability and Market Reaction to Analyst Forecasts

Journal of Accounting and Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

74 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2016 Last revised: 21 Feb 2019

Jay Jung

City, University of London - Bayes Business School

Alok Kumar

University of Miami - Miami Herbert Business School

Sonya S. Lim

DePaul University - Department of Finance

Choong-Yuel Yoo

KAIST College of Business

Date Written: February 9, 2019

Abstract

We find that forecast revisions by analysts with more favorable surnames elicit stronger market reactions. The effect is stronger among firms with lower institutional ownership and for analysts with non-American first names. Following the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and France and Germany’s opposition to the Iraq War, revisions by analysts with Middle Eastern and French or German surnames, respectively, generated weaker market reaction. Surname favorability is not associated with forecast quality, but it has complementary effects with forecast performance on analysts’ career outcomes. Surname favorability mitigates under-reaction to forecast revisions. These findings are distinct from the effects of ethnic, cultural proximity, or in-group bias.

Keywords: Equity analyst, surname favorability, earnings forecast, market reaction, motivated reasoning

JEL Classification: G14, G24, J15, J71

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Jay Heon and Kumar, Alok and Lim, Sonya S. and Yoo, Choong-Yuel, An Analyst by Any Other Surname: Surname Favorability and Market Reaction to Analyst Forecasts (February 9, 2019). Journal of Accounting and Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2830506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2830506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Mateos
Using the ethnicity classifications in OnoMap, we construct an alternative measure of surname favorability, FavSName (OnoMap), and find that our main findings remain qualitatively the same. The results are provided in Panel A of Table O.3. Second, using a hand-collected dataset of analysts' full names and the ethnicity classifications in OnoMap, we construct a measure of full name favorability, FavFName (OnoMap). We find that our results are robust to measuring the favorability of an analyst's full name using a different data source Posted: 2011
C A Gleason , C M C Lee
Analyst forecast revisions and market price discovery
Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 193 - 225 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Hwang
Country-specific sentiment and security prices
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 382 - 401 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Kumar , A Niessen-Ruenzi , O G Spalt
What's in a name? Mutual fund flows when managers have foreign-sounding names
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 2281 - 2321 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Kee-Hong Bae , Kiridaran Kanagaretnam , Hongping Tan
Societal Trust and the Informativeness of Analyst Research
45 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2015 · Last revised: 4 May 2020 · Downloads: 321
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sima Jannati
The Ripple Effect of All-Star Females: Knowledge Spillover and Improved Analyst Performance
Journal of Empirical Finance, Forthcoming · 58 Pages · Posted: 31 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 3 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 220
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shuping Chen , Jay Heon Jung , Sonya S. Lim , Yong Yu
Analysts’ Cultural Attitudes to Time Orientation
56 Pages · Posted: 17 May 2020 · Downloads: 382
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Omri Even-Tov , Kanyuan Huang , Brett Trueman , Jonathan Bogard
Call Me by Your Name: The Effect of Analyst-CEO First Name Commonality on Analyst Forecast Accuracy
38 Pages · Posted: 8 May 2020 · Last revised: 4 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 873
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
810
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,538
RANK
69,862
5 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies