Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Drivers, Internal Agents. On the Role of Environmental Factors and Agents for the Integration of Business Reporting

30 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2016 Last revised: 14 Jan 2021

Peter Kotzian

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf; Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: August 29, 2016

Abstract

Integration of external and internal business reporting is seen as a core component of effective management. While traditionally set apart in Germany, internal and external reporting became more integrated in recent years, both in terms of organization and content. We tackle the question, what factors drive this integration? And, by what mechanism do these factors operate?

Existing literature sees external factors in the firms' environment as drivers. This argument is basically functionalist, ignoring that potential advantages of adapting to a changing environment are not realized automatically, not even in firms. While by integrating their business reporting, firms react to pressures in their economic environment, we argue that this process is primarily driven by actors inside the firm. Based on actor-centered approaches from sociological theory of organizations, we argue that changes in organizational features are brought about by agents in higher levels of the firm's hierarchy, motivated to do so by the link between their income and the firm's economic performance. Then, behavior of actors lower in the organizational hierarchy follows the guidance by the organizational setting, leading to integration of internal and external reporting. Survey data from a sample of German firms supports this actor-based explanation rather than the functionalist explanation based just on environmental drivers.

Keywords: financial reporting, accounting systems, Germany, organizational change

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Kotzian, Peter, External Drivers, Internal Agents. On the Role of Environmental Factors and Agents for the Integration of Business Reporting (August 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2831461 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2831461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Leadership and control system design
Management Accounting Research , volume 21 , p. 2 - 16 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Angelkort
Integration des Rechnungswesens als Erfolgsfaktor für die ControllerarbeitEine empirische Untersuchung deutscher Großunternehmen Posted: 2010
H Angelkort , J Sandt , B E Weißenberger
IFRS Rechnungslegung -Risiko oder Erfolgsfaktor für die Controllerarbeit? -Proaktive Auseinandersetzung mit den IFRS als Erfolgsgrundlage , volume 2 , p. 188 - 191 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J S Beißel , K.-H
Integriertes Reporting unter IFRS bei der Lufthansa , volume 48 , p. 63 - 70 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,513
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies