Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 'Buy Side' View on CEO Pay

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-60

9 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2016 Last revised: 2 Dec 2016

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brendan Sheehan

Rivel Research Group

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: September 1, 2016

Abstract

Executive compensation is a highly controversial topic. Journalists, governance commentators, and members of the American public believe that the majority of CEOs are overpaid. Missing from the discussion, however, is the viewpoint of the institutional portfolio managers that owns shares in these corporations and make buy and sell decisions.

In this Closer Look, we review proprietary survey data from Rivel Research Group examining how institutional (“buy-side”) investors view CEO compensation. We ask:

• How do buy-side investors and the general public differ in their evaluation of executive compensation? • Which constituency is “correct”? • What performance metrics are more effective in linking pay with performance: operating or stock-price metrics? • How much downside risk should an executive be exposed to?

The Stanford Closer Look series is a collection of short case studies through which we explore topics, issues, and controversies in corporate governance and executive leadership. In each study, we take a targeted look at a specific issue that is relevant to the current debate on governance and explain why it is so important. Larcker and Tayan are co-authors of the books "Corporate Governance Matters" and "A Real Look at Real World Corporate Governance."

Keywords: CEO compensation, executive pay, pay for performance, correlation of pay to performance metrics, compensation committees, corporate governance research, proxy advisory firms

JEL Classification: G3, G30, G34, J3

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Sheehan, Brendan and Tayan, Brian, The 'Buy Side' View on CEO Pay (September 1, 2016). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-60, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2831619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,819
RANK
206,808
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies