Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and the Rise of Integrating Corporate Social Responsibility Criteria in Executive Compensation: Effectiveness and Implications for Firm Outcomes

40 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2016 Last revised: 30 Dec 2018

Caroline Flammer

Columbia University; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Bryan Hong

Henry W. Bloch School of Management, University of Missouri-Kansas City

Dylan Minor

Anderson School of Management (UCLA); Columbia University - School of International & Public Affairs (SIPA)

Date Written: December 27, 2018

Abstract

This study examines the integration of corporate social responsibility (CSR) criteria in executive compensation, a relatively recent practice in corporate governance. We construct a novel database of CSR contracting and document that CSR contracting has become more prevalent over time. We further find that the adoption of CSR contracting leads to i) an increase in long-term orientation; ii) an increase in firm value; iii) an increase in social and environmental initiatives; iv) a reduction in emissions; and v) an increase in green innovations. These findings are consistent with our theoretical arguments predicting that CSR contracting helps direct management’s attention to stakeholders that are less salient but financially material to the firm in the long run, thereby enhancing corporate governance.

Keywords: corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, executive compensation, managerial incentives, long-term orientation

JEL Classification: D9, G3, J3, M1, M5, Q5

Suggested Citation:

Flammer, Caroline and Hong, Bryan and Minor, Dylan, Corporate Governance and the Rise of Integrating Corporate Social Responsibility Criteria in Executive Compensation: Effectiveness and Implications for Firm Outcomes (December 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2831694 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2831694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
P Aghion , J Tirole
The management of innovation
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 109 , issue 4 , p. 1185 - 1209 Posted: 1994
Crossref
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American Economic Review , volume 103 , issue 1 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The cross-national diversity of corporate governance: dimensions and determinants
Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate governance and social responsibility: a comparative analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,747
RANK
13,321
68 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies