Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do Measures of Real-Time Corporate Sales Tell Us About Earnings Surprises and Post-Announcement Returns?

52 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2016

Kenneth Froot

Harvard University Graduate School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Namho Kang

Bentley University - Department of Finance

Gideon Ozik

EDHEC Business School

Ronnie Sadka

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 29, 2016

Abstract

We develop real-time proxies of retail corporate sales from multiple sources, including ~50 million mobile devices. These measures contain information from both the earnings quarter (“within quarter”) and the period between that quarter’s end and the earnings announcement date (“post quarter”). Our within-quarter measure is powerful in explaining quarterly sales growth, revenue surprises and earnings surprises, generating average excess announcement returns of 3.4%. However, surprisingly, our post-quarter measure is related negatively to announcement returns, and positively to post-announcement returns. When post-quarter private information is positive, managers, at announcement, provide pessimistic guidance and use negative language. This effect is more pronounced when, post-announcement, management insiders trade. We conclude managers do not fully disclose their private information and instead bias their disclosures down when in possession of positive private information. The data suggest they may be motivated in part by subsequent personal stock-trading opportunities.

Keywords: Earnings Announcement, Insider Trading, Private Information

Suggested Citation:

Froot, Kenneth and Kang, Namho and Ozik, Gideon and Sadka, Ronnie, What Do Measures of Real-Time Corporate Sales Tell Us About Earnings Surprises and Post-Announcement Returns? (August 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2832189 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2832189
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
671
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,448
RANK
79,770
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies