Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Performance and Analyst Information Processing Costs

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

48 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2016 Last revised: 20 Jun 2019

Paul A. Griffin

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Thaddeus Neururer

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Estelle Yuan Sun

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: August 31, 2016

Abstract

This study tests the hypothesis that analyst information processing costs vary positively in the level of firms’ environmental performance ratings. Based on proxies for analyst information processing costs (e.g., the number of stocks followed, frequency and timeliness of earnings revisions, the accuracy of earnings forecasts), we find results to support this hypothesis. These findings deepen our knowledge of the informational setting that conditions analysts’ decisions by identifying the cost of processing environmental information as a potential determinant of the stocks analysts include in their portfolios. Our findings also have implications for capital market efficiency because the higher information processing costs induced by environmental performance ratings could discourage analysts from developing trading strategies to exploit asset mispricing.

Keywords: analyst earnings forecasts, analyst processing costs, environmental strengths and concerns, cost of socially responsible investing

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M45, K22

Suggested Citation:

Griffin, Paul A. and Neururer, Thaddeus and Sun, Estelle Yuan, Environmental Performance and Analyst Information Processing Costs (August 31, 2016). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2833508 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2833508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,151
RANK
339,258
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies