Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effectiveness and Potential Unintended Consequences of Caps on Municipal Taxation and Expenditures

35 Pages Posted: 3 Sep 2016

Wilson Rose

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Date Written: April 3, 2016

Abstract

In this paper, I examine how municipalities are affected by tax and expenditure limitations (TELs). The main goals of TELs are to reduce the property tax burden of local residents and reduce the size of government. I find that these goals are generally met in the short run, however expenditures do not seem to be reduced over the long term. I also examine a potential unintended consequence of TELs, a shift in the balance of service and administrative expenditures. I find signs that municipalities may increase service expenditures just before TEL implementation, followed by significant reductions just after. This study also finds that over the long term, service ratio is significantly lower for municipalities operating under tax and expenditure limitations.

Keywords: Municipal Accounting, Government Accounting, Tax and Expenditure Limitations

JEL Classification: M41, H83

Suggested Citation:

Rose, Wilson, The Effectiveness and Potential Unintended Consequences of Caps on Municipal Taxation and Expenditures (April 3, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2833949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2833949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
D N Figlio , A Sullivan
The local response to tax limitation measures: Do local governments manipulate voters to increase revenues?
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , p. 233 - 257 Posted: 2001
Crossref
P G Joyce , D R Mullins
The changing structure of the state and local sector: The impact of tax and expenditure limitations
Public Administration Review , volume 51 , p. 240 - 253 Posted: 1991
Crossref
D Lowery
Limitations on taxing and spending powers: An assessment of their effectiveness
Soial Science Quarterly , volume 63 , p. 247 - 263 Posted: 1983
B C Mccabe
State institutions and city property taxes: Revisiting the effects of the tax revolt
Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management , volume 12 , p. 205 - 229 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,204
RANK
897,300
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies