Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Board Characteristics Matter to Insider Timing and Profitability in the US Market?

Journal of Finance and Economics, Vol 5, 1, 2017

64 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2016 Last revised: 15 Feb 2017

Bill M. Kiwia

Institute of Finance Management

Date Written: September 4, 2016

Abstract

In this paper I analyze the relationship between insider trading and corporate governance characteristics. Despite, the widely held view that insider trading significantly affects stock prices; little is known about what causes such market inefficiency and whether firm characteristics matters. This paper focuses on the impact of board structure towards insider trading and stock price efficiency. Using an event study methodology, this paper analyzes the influence of different board characteristics on insider profits as measured by share price abnormal returns. It also uses purchase ratio as a proxy for insider trading activities. Findings suggest that higher board independence, small board size and high debt levels have a significant influence towards reducing insider profits. The trading activities of insiders appear to have no significant relationship to the corporate governance characteristics of the firm. The overall results suggest that good governance reduces insider abnormal profits and increase stock price efficiency. With regards to insider trading activities we found little evidence suggesting corporate governance impact insider trading associated with future cash-flows. The study uses a sample of 250 firms from S&P 500 Index from 2000 to 2005.

Keywords: Insider Trading, Board Structure, Asymmetry Information Theory

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G32, D21

Suggested Citation:

Kiwia, Bill M., Do Board Characteristics Matter to Insider Timing and Profitability in the US Market? (September 4, 2016). Journal of Finance and Economics, Vol 5, 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2834680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2834680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
R M Bushman , A J Smith
Financial accounting information and corporate governance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 32 , p. 237 - 333 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Y Campbell
Econometrics of Finance
Econometrica Posted: 1997
J Y Campbell , W L Andrew , A C Mackinlay
The Econometrics of Financial Markets Posted: 1997
R Cantor
Moody's Investors Service Response to the Consultative Paper Issued by Basel Committee on Bank Supervision "A New Capital Adequacy Framework
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 25 , p. 171 - 185 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,553
RANK
472,791
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies