Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Overhead Cost Budgeting on the Annual Imprest Expenditures of State Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAS): A Study from Cross River State, Nigeria

Research Paper Series. International Business Research (IBR), Canadian Center of Science and Education, Vol. 6, No. 6, June, 2013

14 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2016

William Inyang

University of Calabar

Date Written: May 17, 2013

Abstract

The excess of actual imprest expenditures over the overhead cost budgets of Cross River State Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies has not been given the attention it deserves despite the high frequency of its occurrence. More emphasis seems to be placed on the effects of the overall government budget on the actual general expenditure at the neglect of the effects which overhead cost budgets of MDAs have on imprest expenditures in the State. This study was therefore, carried out to fill this gap. Primary and secondary data were collected using questionnaires and office records respectively. Five hypotheses were formulated and tested by specifically applying inferential and parametric statistics to the primary data. The secondary data were specifically used to provide evidence for the identified research problem. The study revealed that overhead cost budgets, special imprests and additional imprests were ineffectively used. Secondly, even though previous studies showed that financial malpractices and poor budget monitoring were strongly associated with extra-budgetary expenditures in the 3 tiers of governments in Nigeria, the current study indicated that these two variables have little or no association and weak association respectively with extra-budgetary imprest expenditures in Cross River State MDAs. Inaccuracies in the overhead cost budgeting system were strongly associated with the extra-budgetary imprest expenditures. The study therefore, recommended that efficient and effective overhead cost budgeting system and regular budget review be put in place.

Keywords: extra-budgetary expenditure, MDAs, overhead cost budget, annual imprest expenditure, extra-budgetary imprest expenditure

Suggested Citation:

Inyang, William, The Impact of Overhead Cost Budgeting on the Annual Imprest Expenditures of State Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAS): A Study from Cross River State, Nigeria (May 17, 2013). Research Paper Series. International Business Research (IBR), Canadian Center of Science and Education, Vol. 6, No. 6, June, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2834489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
T Abe
Fiscal responsibility, accountability and democratic consolidation in Nigeria The case of Ekiti State
Finance and Administrative Sciences , volume 37 Posted: 2011
S Abogun , T O Fagbemi
The efficacy of budgeting as a control measure in developing economies: A study from Nigeria
Asian Social Science , volume 8 , issue 1 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R A Adams
Public sector accounting and finance Posted: 2000
J A Adeshoba
Internal audit procedures and operations challenges and initiatives Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,234
RANK
350,629
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies