Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relevance of Discretionary Loan Loss Provisions During the Financial Crisis

52 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2016 Last revised: 22 May 2019

Paul J. Beck

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Zhenhua Chen

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Bin Li

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Ganapathi S. Narayanamoorthy

Tulane University - Accounting & Taxation

Date Written: May 20, 2019

Abstract

Banks’ use of accounting discretion in estimating loan loss provisions (LLPs) during the financial crisis has come under severe criticism. We argue, however, that it is during periods of instability like the financial crisis that accounting discretion is most relevant. We find that the discretionary component of LLPs exhibits dramatically stronger associations with contemporaneous stock returns and with subsequent realized loan losses during the crisis than in surrounding periods. We also find that discretionary LLPs are associated with the Treasury’s allocation of TARP funds. Tests surrounding the TARP funding shock provided added validity to our empirical specifications. The significant beneficial role of discretion in LLPs during the financial crisis is especially important in light of the FASB’s new accounting rules that are likely to alter the level of accounting discretion underlying these estimates.

Keywords: Financial Crisis; Banks; TARP; Loan Loss Provisions; Accounting Discretion; Value Relevance

JEL Classification: G01; G21; G28; M41

Suggested Citation:

Beck, Paul J. and Chen, Zhenhua and Li, Bin and Narayanamoorthy, Ganapathi S., The Relevance of Discretionary Loan Loss Provisions During the Financial Crisis (May 20, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2835606 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2835606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,469
RANK
257,340
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies