Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Financial Disclosure on Social Media: Does Corporate Governance Matter?

30 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2016

Jessica Yang

University of Reading - Henley Business School

Siwen Liu

Tianjin University of Science & Technology

Dan Zhou

University of Reading - Henley Business School

Date Written: September 8, 2016

Abstract

In this study, we investigate whether corporate governance is a key determinant of a firm’s decision to disclose and disseminate financial information on a social media platform. We observe earnings-related disclosures on Twitter for a sample of UK FTSE 350 firms. We find that earnings disclosure is significantly associated with larger board size, greater gender diversity, and higher board effectiveness. Among the 127 disclosing firms, we find that board effectiveness is also significantly and positively associated with the extent of information dissemination. Overall, our findings suggest that firms with better governance mechanisms are more proactive in adopting social media as a complementary corporate disclosure channel. In particular, board effectiveness plays an important role in mitigating the information gap between management and investors through information dissemination on social media.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Voluntary disclosure, Information dissemination, Social media, FTSE 350

JEL Classification: G34, L14

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Jessica and Liu, Siwen and Zhou, Dan, Voluntary Financial Disclosure on Social Media: Does Corporate Governance Matter? (September 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2836570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2836570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: a conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
20 Citations
Azzam Hannoon , Yousif Abdelbagi Abdalla , Abdalmuttaleb M. A. Musleh Al-Sartawi , Azam Abdelhakeem Khalid
The Big Data-Driven Digital Economy: Artificial and Computational Intelligence
, volume 974 , p. 229 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Chaoyuan She , Giovanna Michelon
A governance approach to stakeholder engagement in sustainable enterprises—Evidence from B Corps
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 5487 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Julian U. N. Vogel , Feixue Xie
Do(n’t) believe everything you hear about disclosure: Twitter and the voluntary disclosure effect
Financial Markets and Portfolio Management , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 161 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Lijun Lei , Yutao Li , Yan Luo
Production and Dissemination of Corporate Information in Social Media: A Review
Forthcoming, Journal of Accounting Literature · 40 Pages · Posted: 24 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 432
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
828
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,809
RANK
67,889
20 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies