Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Real Problem with Appraisal Arbitrage

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2016-1026

30 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2016 Last revised: 13 Oct 2016

Richard A. Booth

Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law; ECGI

Date Written: September 7, 2016

Abstract

In the controversial practice of appraisal arbitrage, activist investors buy up the shares of a corporation to be acquired by merger in order to assert appraisal rights challenging the price of the deal – which may already have been approved by the target stockholders. The practice is controversial because the appraisal remedy is widely seen as intended to protect existing stockholders who are (or will be) forced to sell their shares in the merger – because the majority rules. But the real puzzle is why appraisal arbitrage is profitable since the goal of an appraisal proceeding is to determine the fair price of target shares using the same techniques of valuation used by financial professionals who advise the parties to such deals. Thus, commentators have argued that the profit derives from (1) a free option to assert appraisal rights at any time until target shares are cancelled (and indeed for short time thereafter), (2) the award of pre-judgment interest at a too-generous rate, and (3) the use of a too-low supply-side discount rate in the valuation of shares. As shown in this article, none of these explanations has merit, but the third may be on the right track in that it has become almost standard practice among appraisal courts to reduce the discount rate by the projected rate of inflation and general economic growth for the so-called terminal period beyond five years into the future. The fallacy in doing so is that the discount rate implicit in market prices already incorporates these factors because investors demand and expect returns commensurate therewith. While it may be appropriate to adjust the terminal period discount rate for company-specific growth funded by the plowback of returns at a rate implicit in projected terminal period cash flow, it is incorrect to assume that growth will simply happen in lock-step with the economy as a whole. Thus, appraisal arbitrage is likely encouraged by awards that are skewed to the high side by erroneous valuation practices.

Keywords: appraisal arbitrage, merger, valuation, discount rate, inflation, growth, option, pre-judgment interest, supply-side, equity risk premium, projection period, terminal period, discounted cash flow, plowback, DCF, capital asset pricing model, CAPM, fair price

JEL Classification: G34, K22, K41

Suggested Citation:

Booth, Richard A., The Real Problem with Appraisal Arbitrage (September 7, 2016). Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2016-1026, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2836093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2836093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Del. Ch. LEXIS , volume 262 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Del
LEXIS , volume 77 Posted: 2015
2004) (deal price may be used "so long as the process leading to the transaction is a reliable indicator of value and merger-specific value is excluded"). Although deal price is sometimes referred to as market price, the courts have been quite adamant about not relying on market price as derived from trading prices. On the other hand, the courts have sometimes relied on the prices accepted by insiders in private block sales but usually only as a reality check , volume 340 Posted: 1990
Del , Ch
But see In re Sunbelt Beverage Corp. Shareholder Litigation
WL 26539 (Del. Ch. 2010) (rejecting internally agreed buy-back price as stale) Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,949
RANK
225,084
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies