Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax and Nontax Incentives in Income Shifting: Evidence from Shadow Insurers

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2836215

79 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2016 Last revised: 27 Aug 2019

Bradford Hepfer

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Ryan J. Wilson

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

Date Written: August 2019

Abstract

Income shifting is a significant concern among policymakers worldwide and a growing area of academic interest. We use the shadow insurance setting to study the interplay between tax and nontax incentives in income shifting. Shadow insurance involves intercompany transactions ostensibly designed to help firms meet regulatory capital requirements. We argue that prior to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), foreign owned life insurance firms could use it to shift their U.S. profits to tax havens and save taxes. We find that although nontax incentives appear to be the dominant factor behind firms’ use of shadow insurance, tax considerations also played a significant role for certain firms. While our results suggest that taxes provided an important incentive for foreign owned life insurance firms to use shadow insurance, our study also highlights that, in this setting, nontax considerations appear to motivate U.S. owned firms’ use of tax havens.

Keywords: Income Shifting; Tax Avoidance; Shadow Insurance

JEL Classification: G35; H25; M40

Suggested Citation:

Hepfer, Bradford and Wilde, Jaron H. and Wilson, Ryan J., Tax and Nontax Incentives in Income Shifting: Evidence from Shadow Insurers (August 2019). Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2836215, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2836215 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2836215
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
A M
Best Company, Inc. 2016. Best's Financial Strength Rating Guide -(FSR)
R Adiel
Reinsurance and the management of regulatory ratios and taxes in the property-casualty insurance industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 207 - 240 Posted: 1996
Crossref
N V Aegon
Form 20-F. Retrieved on Posted: 2017-05-27
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
441
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,823
RANK
150,648
11 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies