Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Age and Stock Price Crash Risk

Forthcoming in Review of Finance

Posted: 12 Sep 2016 Last revised: 7 Nov 2016

Panayiotis C. Andreou

Cyprus University of Technology

Christodoulos Louca

Cyprus University of Technology

Andreas Petrou

Cyprus University of Technology

Date Written: August 27, 2015

Abstract

We show that firms with younger CEOs are more likely to experience stock-price crashes, including crashes caused by revelation of negative news in the form of breaks in strings of consecutive earnings increases. Such strings are accompanied by large increases in CEO compensation that do not dissipate with stock-price crashes. These findings suggest that CEOs have financial incentives to hoard bad news earlier in their career, which increases future stock-price crashes. This negative impact of CEO age effect is strongest in the presence of managerial discretion. Overall, the findings highlight the importance of CEO age for firm policies and outcomes.

Keywords: CEO Age, Crash Risk, Agency Theory, Managerial Discretion

JEL Classification: G00, G02

Suggested Citation:

Andreou, Panayiotis C. and Louca, Christodoulos and Petrou, Andreas, CEO Age and Stock Price Crash Risk (August 27, 2015). Forthcoming in Review of Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2837200
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,619
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies