Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Auditing in Corporate Governance in Australia and New Zealand: A Research Synthesis

8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

69 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2016 Last revised: 7 Dec 2016

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Jenny Stewart

Griffith University - Griffith Business School

Nives Botica Redmayne

Massey University

Date Written: September 13, 2016

Abstract

Corporate governance is of growing importance in Australia, New Zealand and all over the world. Corporate governance interacts with auditing and it is useful to understand how corporate governance and auditing affect companies. However, the interaction is not straight forward. To some extent, good auditing will lead to recommendations that will lead to improved governance; while on the other hand, good governance will lead to directors setting high standards including demanding a high standard of auditing. A related issue is whether better governance is a substitute for auditing or a complement. Previous studies of that issue have had mixed results. This review article provides a synthesis of Australian and New Zealand research about corporate governance and auditing that takes stock of what has been found and examines issues that can be explored using multiple studies. We conclude that despite extensive research, there is still considerable uncertainty about the effects of corporate governance mechanisms on auditing and the effects of auditing on corporate governance. The results are intended to be helpful in providing advice about policy in Australia and New Zealand, and in determining directions for new research.

Keywords: auditing, corporate governance, external auditing, internal auditing, Australia, New Zealand

JEL Classification: L13, L84, M40, M42

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David and Stewart, Jenny and Botica Redmayne, Nives, The Role of Auditing in Corporate Governance in Australia and New Zealand: A Research Synthesis (September 13, 2016). 8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2838066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2838066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
145 References
K Ahmed , D Henry
Accounting conservatism and voluntary corporate governance mechanisms by Australian firms
Accounting and Finance , volume 52 , p. 631 - 662 Posted: 2012
Crossref
H Aldamen , K Duncan , S Kelly , R Mcnamara , S Nagel
Audit committee characteristics and firm performance during the global financial crisis
Accounting & Finance , volume 52 , p. 971 - 1000 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Governance Asx Corporate , Council
Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Best Practice Recommendations. Sydney: ASX Corporate Governance Council Posted: 2003
Governance Asx Corporate , Council
Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,093
RANK
176,084
1 Citations
145 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies