Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Addressing Informational Challenges with Earnouts in Mergers and Acquisitions

Research Handbook on Mergers and Acquisitions, Forthcoming; Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2016-17

20 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2016 Last revised: 26 Sep 2016

Albert H. Choi

University of Michigan Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: September 25, 2016

Abstract

This essay examines the role played by earnouts in mergers and acquisitions transactions. When one party is better informed of the true value of the deal than the other, the parties face the well-known “lemons” problem, which could prevent them from consummating the transaction even when both are aware that the deal will produce a positive (but uncertain) surplus. By harnessing post-closing, verifiable information, earnouts allow the transacting parties to overcome this informational challenge. The essay also analyzes (1) how the adoption and the size of an earnout will vary depending on the various characteristics of the transaction and (2) the earnout design issues when the parties face the problems of ex post moral hazard, such as engaging in inefficient behavior to either maximize or minimize the earnout payment.

Keywords: Earnouts, Mergers and Acquisitions, Information Asymmetry, Post-Closing Verification

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Albert H., Addressing Informational Challenges with Earnouts in Mergers and Acquisitions (September 25, 2016). Research Handbook on Mergers and Acquisitions, Forthcoming; Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2016-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2838029 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2838029
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
G Akerlof
The Market for 'Lemons': Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
84 Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Model Stock Purchase Agreement with Commentary Posted: 2010
P Bolton , M Dewatripont
Contract Theory Posted: 2005
R Bruner
Applied Mergers and Acquisitions Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
374
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,281
RANK
181,854
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Virginia Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies