Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Exploring the Auditor’s Role in Internal Control Misreporting:

Evidence from PCAOB Data

60 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2016 Last revised: 13 Feb 2025

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Preeti Choudhary

University of Arizona, Eller College of Management

Gil Sadka

University of Texas at Dallas

Date Written: December 17, 2020

Abstract

Prior research finds that companies and their auditors often fail to report existing internal control weaknesses. While other studies document reasons for the company’s internal control misreporting, we investigate the auditor’s role in such misreporting. Understanding why auditors fail to report material weaknesses can help audit regulators enact more effective interventions to improve internal control audits. To understand the auditor’s role, we analyze Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) proprietary data on audit clients’ internal control deficiencies (both material weaknesses and less-severe deficiencies) and deficiencies in the audits of internal controls documented by PCAOB inspectors. We find a significant yet overlooked explanation for unreported material weaknesses – auditors fail to detect relevant controls. Additional analyses suggest auditor incentives and lack of expertise in auditing internal controls contribute to the auditor’s detection failure. Collectively, our results suggest audits can be improved by requiring that internal controls are audited by more experienced and better incentivized auditors.  

Keywords: Internal Controls, Auditing, Material Weakness, Restatements, Audit Deficiencies, Detection Failure, Disclosure Failure

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, M12, M40

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Choudhary, Preeti and Sadka, Gil,

Exploring the Auditor’s Role in Internal Control Misreporting:

Evidence from PCAOB Data

(December 17, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2838896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2838896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
D Aobdia
The impact of the PCAOB individual engagement inspection process -Preliminary evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
D Aobdia
Do practitioner assessments agree with academic proxies for audit quality? Evidence from PCAOB and internal inspections
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 144 - 174 Posted: 2019
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The economics of audit production: what matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of midlevel managers within the audit firm
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,174
RANK
17,021
3 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies