Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Financial Reporting Opacity and Regulatory Intervention

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2016 Last revised: 14 Jan 2022

John Gallemore

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Date Written: January 2022

Abstract

I study the association between bank financial reporting opacity, measured by delayed expected loan loss recognition, and the intervention decisions made by bank regulators. Examining U.S. commercial banks during the 2007-09 financial crisis, I find that delayed expected loan loss recognition is negatively associated with the likelihood of regulatory intervention (measured by either severe enforcement action or closure). This result is robust to using various specifications and research designs. In additional analyses, I find evidence suggesting that this association is driven by regulators exploiting financial reporting opacity to practice forbearance. My findings contribute to the extant literature on bank opacity, regulatory forbearance, and the consequences of loan loss provisioning by suggesting that delayed expected loan loss recognition affects regulatory intervention decisions.

Keywords: regulatory intervention, bank closure, enforcement actions, forbearance, loan loss provisioning, banking crises

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gallemore, John, Bank Financial Reporting Opacity and Regulatory Intervention (January 2022). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2838541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2838541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
V V Acharya , T Philippon , M Richardson , N Roubini , V V Acharya , M Richardson
A bird's-eye view: the financial crisis of 2007-2009: causes and remedies
Restoring financial stability: how to repair a failed system Posted: 2009
A Admati
It takes a village to maintain a dangerous financial system. Working paper Posted: 2016
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: evidence from banking
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
B Akins , L Li , J Ng , T O Rusticus
Bank competition and financial stability: evidence from the financial crisis
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,475
RANK
39,567
31 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies