Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Provisions Under IAS 37

EuroMed Journal of Business, Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Sep 2016

Ece Erdener Acar

Izmir University of economics

Serdar Ozkan

American University of the Middle East

Date Written: September 14, 2016

Abstract

Aim of this study is to illustrate the extent of disclosure of provisions reported under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and explore the relation between provisions and corporate governance. Current research utilizes a panel data analysis using a sample of 1078 firm-year observations from Borsa Istanbul (BIST) between the years 2005-2010. Overall findings indicate that, 62% of 1078 firm-year observations recognize provisions; and among those only 32% provide IAS 37's full disclosure requirements. Firms that recognize provisions have larger board of directors and are more likely to be characterized with concentrated ownership and institutional owners. Also, firms with larger board of directors, greater independence and concentrated ownership have higher Total Provision/Total Debt ratios. Finally, firms that make full disclosure of provisions are more likely to have larger boards, higher ownership concentration and institutional owners and less likely to have CEO duality.

Keywords: IAS 37, Provisions, Forward Looking Information, Corporate Governance, Turkey

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Erdener Acar, Ece and Ozkan, Serdar, Corporate Governance and Provisions Under IAS 37 (September 14, 2016). EuroMed Journal of Business, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2838787
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,587
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies