Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Audit Committee Characteristics and Earnings Quality: Evidence from Jordan

Australasian Accounting Business and Finance Journal, 7(4), 2013, 51-80.

32 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2016

Allam Mohameed Hamdan

Ahlia University

Sabri Mushtaha

Al-Quds Open University

Abdalmuttaleb Musleh Al-Sartawi

Ahlia University

Date Written: December 8, 2013

Abstract

The aim of the paper is to investigate the relationship between audit committee characteristics and earnings management. Samples in the study included 50 industrial companies listed on the Amman Stock Exchange ASE. Two models were used to measure earnings quality: one which depends on earnings continuity as an indication of quality, and one which depends on the decrease of discretionary accruals of quality, using pooled data regression for the two tests (Ordinary Least Squares OLS and Binary Logit). The study found that there was an influence of some standard characteristics of the audit committee on earnings quality.

Keywords: Audit Committee Characteristics, Earnings Quality, Amman Stock Exchange

Suggested Citation:

Hamdan, Allam Mohameed and Mushtaha, Sabri and Musleh Al-Sartawi, Abdalmuttaleb, The Audit Committee Characteristics and Earnings Quality: Evidence from Jordan (December 8, 2013). Australasian Accounting Business and Finance Journal, 7(4), 2013, 51-80., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2839158 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2839158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
K Abdelghany
Measuring the Quality of Earnings
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 20 , issue 9 , p. 1001 - 1015 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Al-Farah
The effectiveness of audit committees in the Jordanian public shareholding companies: empirical study Posted: 2001
I Al-Sharif
Quality of earnings and their relationship to corporate governance: An Empirical Study on the Industrial Sector Firms Listed at Amman Stock Exchange. Arab Academy for Banking and Financial Sciences Posted: 2008
J &amp; Altamuro , Beatty
Do Internal Control Reforms Improve Earnings Quality?', Working Paper Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,383
RANK
123,612
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies