Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audit Committee Characteristics of Bahraini Listed Companies Have an Effect on the Level of Internet Financial Reporting?

Corporate Ownership and Control, Volume 13, Issue 2, 2016

17 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2016 Last revised: 30 Jan 2017

Sara AlMatrooshi

Ahlia University

Abdalmuttaleb Musleh Al-Sartawi

Ahlia University

Zakeya Sanad

Ahlia University

Date Written: February 5, 2016

Abstract

Corporate Governance and IFR are influential topics that need to be addressed nowadays due to its importance. Especially since companies are growing and extending globally. This research is conducted in Kingdom of Bahrain through the year 2014, where it investigates the relationship between Audit Committee characteristics as a tool of CG and IFR. Literature review has been conducted, not to mention Multi-regression test was used to evaluate the relationship between Audit Committee characteristics and IFR for Bahraini listed companies. The results have showed that the relationship between Audit Committee characteristics and IFR is negative, which indicates that the Audit committee characteristics have no influence over the disclosure of financial information over the internet. However, Frequency of meeting of the board and Big4 resulted in a positive relationship with internet financial reporting. The study ends with a main conclusion and recommendation that contain certain steps and advices of disclosing financial information in an appropriate way through the internet in order to improve the relationship between Audit committee characteristics and IFR.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Audit Committee Characteristics, Internet Financial Reporting, Bahrain Bourse

Suggested Citation:

AlMatrooshi, Sara and Musleh Al-Sartawi, Abdalmuttaleb and Sanad, Zakeya, Do Audit Committee Characteristics of Bahraini Listed Companies Have an Effect on the Level of Internet Financial Reporting? (February 5, 2016). Corporate Ownership and Control, Volume 13, Issue 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2839164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters , K Raghunandan
The Effects of Audit Committee Activity and Independence on Corporate Fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
N Abdullah
The characteristics audit committee and the quality of financial reporting in Malaysia. M.Sc International Accounting Thesis Submitted to the Faculty of Accounting Posted: 2006
S &amp; Abhayawansa , R Johnson
Corporate Governance Reforms in Developing Countries: Accountability versus Performance
Reading in Auditing , volume 2 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,465
RANK
193,883
1 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies