Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Relationship between Corporate Governance and Internet Financial Reporting (IFR): Evidence from Bahrain Bourse

Jordan Journal of Business Administration, Volume 12, No. 1, 2016

Posted: 18 Sep 2016

Zakeya Sanad

Ahlia University

Abdalmuttaleb Musleh Al-Sartawi

Ahlia University

Date Written: January 20, 2016

Abstract

Due to globalization and advanced technology, corporate Governance and internet financial reporting (IFR) are becoming increasingly important topics as more companies are expanding globally and the economies are becoming closely interrelated. Kingdom of Bahrain as part of the developing countries had paid a lot of attention to corporate governance recently. Therefore, this study investigates the relationship between corporate governance and internet financial reporting. Extensive literature review was carried out and a multi-regression analysis was used in order to investigate the relationship between corporate governance and internet financial reporting for the companies that are listed in Bahrain bourse. The findings indicate that the relationship between corporate governance and internet financial reporting is weak due to the fact that the board characteristics do not affect the level of disclosing information via the internet (IFR). However, the board size and big4 companies have a positive relationship with IFR. The study recommends that regulatory bodies should develop a guideline of disclosing information through the internet in order to enhance the corporate transparency level among Bahrain listed companies.

Keywords: Internet financial reporting; Corporate Governance; Voluntary Disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Sanad, Zakeya and Musleh Al-Sartawi, Abdalmuttaleb, Investigating the Relationship between Corporate Governance and Internet Financial Reporting (IFR): Evidence from Bahrain Bourse (January 20, 2016). Jordan Journal of Business Administration, Volume 12, No. 1, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2839157
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,368
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies