Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Versus Legal Interpretations of Corporate Insolvency in Australia

Przeglad Corporate Governance, Polish Institute of Company Directors, Vol. 6, Jun. 2006, pp. 59–64

13 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2016

Pawel Podolski

Hewlett Packard Enterprise

Date Written: June 1, 2006

Abstract

Legal and accounting concepts are closely intertwined in the context of corporate insolvency. Often however, discrepancies exist between interpretations of accounting and legal concepts when companies run into difficulties - creating a serious dilemma for directors.

One of the first challenges around insolvency is that it is often unclear at what point, and based on what measures a company is said to be insolvent. Differences of opinion sometimes exist between accounting principles and interpretation of these principles by legislation. The paper examines the issues surrounding this disparity in the following order:

1. In what context accounting regulation in Australia intertwines with legal obligation;

2. Whether discrepancies of definition exists between these two areas in the Australian regulatory system;

3. What effect (if any) such discrepancies have on the usefulness of financial information upon which both the law and directors need to rely on.

Keywords: Insolvency, Accounting, Regulation, Director Obligations, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G33, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Podolski, Pawel, Accounting Versus Legal Interpretations of Corporate Insolvency in Australia (June 1, 2006). Przeglad Corporate Governance, Polish Institute of Company Directors, Vol. 6, Jun. 2006, pp. 59–64 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2840564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Submission to Parliamentary Joint Committee on Corporations & Financial Services Posted: 2003
Crossref
Allens Arthur , Robinson
Dividends: end of the profit test? Posted: 2005
Allens Arthur , Robinson
CLERP 7 -simplified lodgement and compliance Posted: 2006
Crossref
F Clarke , Dean G Oliver , K
Corporate Collapse: Accounting, Regulatory and Ethical Failure Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,239
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies