Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sentiment Effects in the European Emissions Market

45 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2016

Mark Cummins

University of Strathclyde

Peter Deeney

School of Engineering, University College Cork

Michael M. Dowling

Dublin City University Business School; ESC Rennes School of Business

Alan Smeaton

Dublin City University - School of Computing

Date Written: September 18, 2016

Abstract

The pricing of European emissions allowances (EUAs) is complicated by the market being driven by not just financial and economic factors, but also the harder-to-gauge uncertain influences of politics and policy. Drawing on a well-established literature showing sentiment to play an expanded role in investment decision-making in the face of uncertainty, we develop a social media sentiment measure through aggregating pertinent Twitter posts about European emissions. Our sentiment measure is significantly predictive of EUA price and price volatility movements. This relationship is shown using hourly intra-day sentiment and price measures for the final year of the December 2013 EUA futures contract. For prices and returns we demonstrate that there is bi-directional Granger causality between changes in sentiment and changes in EUA prices, and we establish that periods of strong (weak) sentiment correspond with periods of high (low) EUA return volatility. These findings demonstrate that sentiment matters in EUA pricing, that it can be measured using social media, and more broadly suggest that sentiment should matter in other young asset markets with scope for uncertain political interference and policy developments.

Keywords: Sentiment, EUA, Carbon Markets, Uncertainty, Social Media

JEL Classification: C32, G14, Q28

Suggested Citation:

Cummins, Mark and Deeney, Peter and Dowling, Michael M. and Smeaton, Alan, Sentiment Effects in the European Emissions Market (September 18, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2840375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2840375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
P Aatola , M Ollikainen , A Toppinen
Price determination in the EU ETS market: Theory and econometric analysis with market fundamentals
Energy Economics , volume 36 , p. 380 - 395 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S Akhtar , R Faff , B Oliver , A Subrahmanyam
Stock salience and the asymmetric market effect of consumer sentiment news
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 37 , issue 11 , p. 4488 - 4500 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E Alberola , J Chevallier , Cheze , B
Emissions compliances and carbon prices under the EU ETS: A country specific analysis of industrial sectors
Journal of Policy Modeling , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 446 - 462 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross section of stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,950
RANK
420,501
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies