Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Heterogeneity in Expertise in a Credence Goods Setting: Evidence from Audit Partners

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2016 Last revised: 30 Nov 2020

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Saad Siddiqui

University of Texas at Austin

Andres G. Vinelli

Public Company Oversight Board

Date Written: April 30, 2020

Abstract

We examine the heterogeneity of experts in a credence goods setting. In our analytical model, clients are ex ante uncertain about how much effort experts need to provide to solve their problem, which is either simple or difficult. Experts have varying degrees of expertise. Less qualified experts are equally effective at solving simple problems, but they are less effective at solving difficult ones. We show that clients pay a fee premium to more qualified experts, even for simple problems. This premium increases with the ex ante probability that the client has a difficult problem. We empirically test the model predictions in the context of partner industry expertise for the U.S. operations of the Big 4 audit firms. We find, consistent with the model, a positive association between partner industry specialization and audit fees, even for simple audits, and a negative association between partner specialization and the client’s probability of restatements only for difficult audits. Further, the industry specialization premium is higher in industries with higher proportions of difficult audits. Consistent with credence good agency issues, the specialization premium for simple audits is mitigated when information asymmetry between client and auditor is lower.

Keywords: Audit Engagement Partner, Audit Quality, Audit Fees, Industry Specialization, Expert-Client Agency Costs, Disclosure

JEL Classification: M42, D82, L14, L22

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Siddiqui, Saad and Vinelli, Andres G., Heterogeneity in Expertise in a Credence Goods Setting: Evidence from Audit Partners (April 30, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2840332 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2840332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
691
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,850
RANK
86,048
23 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies