Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Evaluation by Different Levels of Management of Islamic Banks and Traditional Banks: Evidence from Banking Sector of Bangladesh

Problems and Perspectives in Management, Vol. 14 (3), 2016

Posted: 7 Oct 2016 Last revised: 28 Nov 2017

Md. Abdul Kaium Masud, PhD

Noakhali Science and Technology University

Md Humayun Kabir

Tshwane University of Technology

Date Written: September 6, 2016

Abstract

The research aims to evaluate different levels of management understanding and performance on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of traditional banks and Islamic banks in Bangladesh. Moreover, the paper points out the philosophy of both banks’ policy makers. The study is exclusively analytical in nature where 14 banks were selected on the basis of availability of branches in the research area. The research was based on primary data sources through a structured questionnaire. The research findings revealed that there is a gap between policy makers’ assurance of CSR contribution and its real implementation. The analysis found that Islamic banks are better than traditional banks with regard to the implementation of CSR policies. The result also showed that there are still some controversies on CSR performance of Islamic and traditional banks in general. The study also observed that Islamic, as well as traditional banks’ different levels of management conceive that CSR activities are performed by banks for their own interest rather than for social welfare. Therefore, it must be emphasized that good CSR policy is inevitable for all types of banks in Bangladesh. For the betterment of the society, as well as the banks, all levels of management should harmonize their CSR philosophy.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, management performance, traditional bank, Islamic bank, Bangladesh

JEL Classification: G21, M10, M14

Suggested Citation:

Masud, Md. Abdul Kaium and Kabir, Md Humayun, Corporate Social Responsibility Evaluation by Different Levels of Management of Islamic Banks and Traditional Banks: Evidence from Banking Sector of Bangladesh (September 6, 2016). Problems and Perspectives in Management, Vol. 14 (3), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2840623
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
777
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies