Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Nexus between Bank Specific Risk Management Practice and Financial Performance: A Study on Selected Commercial Banks in Ethiopia

122 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2016

Biruk Bekele

Independent

Date Written: May 29, 2015

Abstract

This study aims to determine links and impacts of risk management practices of financial performance on commercial banks in Ethiopia. The sample banks included in this study consisted of eight commercial banks operating in Ethiopia. The study was used secondary data source and collected from audited financial statements reported by National Bank of Ethiopia and commercial banks from 2004-2013 fiscal periods to determine indicators of risk management practice. Then, the collected panel data was analyzed and described by basic statistical techniques such as descriptive analysis, trend analysis, Pearson correlation analysis and GLS fixed effect regression analysis was employed by using STATA version 12.0 Risk management practice surrogate by banks specific risk selected indicators on credit risk (non-performing loan ratio), operational risk (efficiency on assets utilization, bank size and cost ratio’s ) , liquidity risk (liquidity ratio’s) ,capital risk (capital adequacy ratio) and insolvency risk(total equity to total debt ratio) as explanatory variables while financial performance proxy by return on assets(ROA) used as dependent variables of the study. The findings of the study reveal that, credit and Liquidity, risk management practices have a negative and significant statistical impact on commercial banks’ performance Similarly, capital and insolvency risk management practice have negative and insignificant impact on commercial banks’ performance due to underinvestment or excessive holding of assets. Despite the fact that, operational risk management (efficiency and cost) practices have a positive and significant statistical impact on banks’ performance which, means that these banks not suffered managing this type of risk during the study period. On the other hand, operational risk management proxy by bank asset size ratio has positive and insignificant impact on financial performance of commercial banks’. Therefore it is suggested that, prudent risks management practices are required for banks on (credit risk, liquidity, capital risk, insolvency and operational risk) in order to protect the interests of investors as well as to maintain regulated healthy financial system all over the economy of the country by enhancing public trust.

Suggested Citation:

Bekele, Biruk, The Nexus between Bank Specific Risk Management Practice and Financial Performance: A Study on Selected Commercial Banks in Ethiopia (May 29, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2841206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2841206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
S O Adeusi , N I Akeke , O S Adebisi , O Oladunjoye
Risk Management and Financial Performance of Banks in Nigeria
Journal of Business and Management , volume 14 , issue 6 Posted: 2013
Andrew Munthopa , Lipunga
Determinants of Profitability of Listed Commercial Banks in Developing Countries: Evidence from Malawi
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 5 , issue 6 Posted: 2014
Anthony M Santomero
Commercial Bank Risk Management: an Analysis of the Process', journal of financial service research Posted: 1997
N M Ariffin , S H Kassim
Risk Management Practices and Financial Performance of Islamic Banks: Malaysian Evidence Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Olajide Solomon Fadun , Diekolola Oye
The analysis of drivers of operational risks in Nigerian commercial banks
Bussecon Review of Social Sciences (2687-2285) , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 1 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Habtamu Legass , Hussen Roba
The Impact of Credit Risk Management on Financial Performance of Commercial Banks in Ethiopia
Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 12 , issue 6 , p. 142 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Hind Muhtaseb , Derar Eleyan
The Role of Management Accounting Practices in Operational Risk Management: The Case of Palestinian Commercial Banks
Journal of Operational Risk, Vol. 16, No. 4, 2021 · 20 Pages · Posted: 8 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 6
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,671
RANK
129,363
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies