Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Investor Cliques and Governance

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2016 Last revised: 28 Jun 2017

Alan D. Crane

Rice University - Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business

Andrew Koch

University of Pittsburgh - Finance Group

Sebastien Michenaud

Kellstadt Graduate School of Business

Date Written: June 22, 2017

Abstract

We examine the impact of investor coordination on governance. We identify coordinating groups of investors ("cliques") as those connected through the network of institutional holdings. Clique members vote together on proxy items: a one-standard-deviation increase in clique ownership more than doubles votes against low quality management proposals. We use the 2003 mutual fund trading scandal to show that this effect is causal. These findings suggest coordination strengthens governance via voice. Coordination, however, also weakens governance via threat of exit. Clique owners exit positions more slowly and firm value responds negatively to liquidity shocks when clique ownership is high.

Keywords: Institutional Investors, Governance, Coordination

JEL Classification: G20, G30

Suggested Citation:

Crane, Alan D. and Koch, Andrew and Michenaud, Sebastien, Institutional Investor Cliques and Governance (June 22, 2017). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2841444 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2841444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A R Admati , P Pfleiderer
The "Wall Street walk" and shareholder activism: Exit as a form of voice
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M Antia , C Pantzalis , J C Park
CEO decision horizon and firm performance: An empirical investigation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , p. 288 - 301 Posted: 2010
Crossref
M Anton , C Polk
Connected stocks
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 1099 - 1127 Posted: 2014
Crossref
I Appel , T A Gormley , D B Keim
Standing on the shoulders of giants: The effect of passive investors on activism Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
904
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,508
RANK
60,157
22 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies