Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Culture: The Interview Evidence

Duke I&E Research Paper No. 2016-42

Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 16-70

43 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2016 Last revised: 30 Aug 2018

John R. Graham

Duke University; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Jillian Grennan

Emory University

Campbell R. Harvey

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Date Written: October 10, 2016

Abstract

We conduct in-depth interviews of senior executives representing over 20% of the market capitalization of the U.S. equity market to understand: (i) the importance, antecedents and consequences of corporate culture; (ii) the mechanisms that underlie the creation and effectiveness of corporate culture; as well as (iii) the factors that deter a firm from achieving its aspirational culture. Our interviews provide the following insights. First, executives characterize culture as “a beliefs system,” “a coordination mechanism,” and “an invisible hand.” Second, most executives view culture as one of the top three factors that affect their firm’s value. Cultural fit in M&A deals is so important that most executives would walk away from a target that is a cultural misalignment. Third, culture is primarily set by the current CEO. Fourth, boards do not directly choose the firm’s culture; instead, they influence the choice of culture by picking the CEO and through their influence on specific policies like incentive compensation, hiring, firing, and promotion decisions, and the values the finance function embraces. Fifth, executives emphasize that for a firm’s culture to be effective, the firm’s espoused values must be backed up by actual behavior and norms. Sixth, an effective culture improves firm value and profitability by (i) fostering creativity and encouraging productivity; (ii) promoting more risk tolerance; (iii) mitigating myopic behavior; (iv) creating a climate for suggesting critiques and for allowing ideas to germinate organically; and (v) by compensating for mistakes in ways that the firm’s assets cannot. In addition to the above, executives suggest several sources of publicly available data to measure corporate culture.

See our related paper Corporate Culture: Evidence from the Field.

Keywords: Corporate culture, Valuation, Finance, Cultural values, Social norms, Leadership, Corporate governance, Incentive compensation, Finance function, Intangible Assets, Risk-taking, Short-termism, Myopia, Innovation, Firm value, Productivity, M&A valuation, Integrity, Trust, Ethics, Compliance, Earnings

JEL Classification: G3, Z1, D23, G23, G30, K22, M14, O16

Suggested Citation:

Graham, John Robert and Grennan, Jillian and Harvey, Campbell R. and Rajgopal, Shivaram, Corporate Culture: The Interview Evidence (October 10, 2016). Duke I&E Research Paper No. 2016-42, Columbia Business School Research Paper No. 16-70, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2842823 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2842823
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Robert Audi , Tim Loughran , Bill McDonald
Trust, But Verify: MD&A Language and the Role of Trust in Corporate Culture
Forthcoming in the Journal of Business Ethics Pages: 32 Posted: 16 Aug 2014 Last revised: 17 Apr 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
L Bargeron , K Lehn , J Smith
Employee-Management Trust and M&A Activity
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 35 , p. 389 - 406 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Frederick L. Bereskin , Terry Lee Campbell , Simi Kedia
Whistle Blowing, Forced CEO Turnover and Misconduct: The Role of Socially Minded Employees and Directors
Management Science, Vol. 66, Issue 1, 2020 Pages: 48 Posted: 22 Dec 2013 Last revised: 6 Feb 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Cancialosi
Wells Fargo And The True Cost of Culture Gone Wrong Posted: 2016-09-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,617
ABSTRACT VIEWS
21,395
RANK
4,817
4 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies