Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Takeover Defenses in the Era of Shareholder Activism

56 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2016

Sa-Pyung Sean Shin

National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

Date Written: April 29, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the interplay between takeover defenses and shareholder activism. Using a comprehensive sample of shareholder activism events between 2006 and 2014, I find a differential impact of takeover defense measures on the likelihood of being targeted for activism; a dual-class structure or a staggered board deters activism, whereas firms with a poison pill in place are more likely to become targets. Activists are more likely to demand removal of takeover defense measures and/or sale of the target firm if the firm has a staggered board or a poison pill in place, suggesting that when takeover defenses block the market for corporate control, activists promote changes through their interventions. I also find that target firms with takeover defenses are more likely to remove those defenses and more likely to be acquired following activism, which suggests that activism can act as an antidote to takeover defenses. Finally, while many target firms adopt a poison pill in response to activist approaches, I do not find evidence that it makes for an effective defense.

Keywords: Shareholder Activism, Hedge Fund Activism, Takeover Defense, Staggered Board, Classified Board, Shareholder Rights Plan, Poison Pill, Dual-class Shares

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Shin, Sa-Pyung Sean, Takeover Defenses in the Era of Shareholder Activism (April 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2842695 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2842695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
L Bebchuk
The case for increasing shareholder power
Harvard Law Review , volume 118 , p. 833 - 917 Posted: 2005
Crossref
L Bebchuk , A Cohen
The costs of entrenched boards
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 409 - 433 Posted: 2005
Crossref
L Bebchuk , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What matters in corporate governance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Brav , W Jiang , F Partnoy , R Thomas
Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate Governance, and Firm Performance
Journal of Finance , volume 63 , p. 1729 - 1775 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Joseph Lee , Yonghui BAO , Jinlin Li
Evaluating the Mandatory Bid Rule for Takeover Law in China: An Empirical and Comparative Analysis
28 Pages · Posted: 5 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 154
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,631
RANK
193,883
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies