Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proactive Financial Reporting Enforcement and Shareholder Wealth

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

80 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2016 Last revised: 6 Oct 2019

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Lisa Yao Liu

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 3, 2019

Abstract

Within the U.K.’s proactive financial-reporting-enforcement regime, we examine the effect of increased regulatory scrutiny on equity values. We find that a fourfold increase in the likelihood of regulator-initiated reviews of financial reports reduces equity values by 1.3% on average. Reductions in equity values are largest for firms with strong private oversight that likely ensures that they are closer to their equity-value-maximizing level of transparency. Additional evidence suggests that competition increases and that managers’ investment horizons decrease in industries selected for increased regulatory scrutiny, consistent with direct compliance costs not fully explaining the reduction in equity values.

Keywords: Financial reporting enforcement, costs and benefits of enforcement, unintended consequences of regulation

JEL Classification: G14, G18, G38, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans Bonde and Liu, Lisa Yao and Maffett, Mark G., Proactive Financial Reporting Enforcement and Shareholder Wealth (October 3, 2019). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2843884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2843884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
V Chhaochharia , Y Grinstein
Corporate governance and firm value: The impact of the 2002 governance rules
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 1789 - 1825 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Y Cho
Segment disclosure transparency and internal capital market efficiency: Evidence from SFAS No. 131
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 669 - 723 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C Chow
The impacts of accounting regulation on bondholder and shareholder wealth: The case of the securities acts
The Accounting Review , volume 58 , p. 489 - 502 Posted: 1983
H Christensen , L Hail , C Leuz
Capital-market effects of securities regulation: Prior conditions, implementation, and enforcement
Review of Financial Studies , volume 29 , p. 2885 - 2924 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,697
RANK
31,521
9 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies