Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Shareholder Voting Matter? Evidence from the Takeover Market

Wake Forest Law Review, Vol. 53, No. 1, 2018

University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-26

54 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2016 Last revised: 30 Jul 2018

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Usha Rodrigues

University of Georgia School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Mike Stegemoller

Baylor University

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 12, 2017

Abstract

Voting rights are a basic shareholder-protection mechanism. Outside of the core voting requirements state law imposes (election of directors and votes on fundamental changes), federal law grants shareholders additional voting rights. But these rights introduce concomitant costs into corporate governance. Each grant of a voting right thus invites the question: is the benefit achieved worth the cost the vote imposes?

The question is not merely a theoretical one. Recently the SEC, concerned about Nasdaq’s potential weakening of shareholder voting protections, has lamented that little evidence exists on the value of the shareholder vote. This Article provides that evidence. It examines the implementation of a Nasdaq shareholder voting rule to identify the associated costs and benefits of requiring the approval of acquisitions by the acquiring firm’s shareholders. It finds firms alter the structure of their acquisitions to avoid shareholder voting. On its own, this finding could suggest self-serving behavior — managers may be avoiding shareholder votes to effectuate suboptimal transactions at the shareholders’ expense. Yet this Article finds no difference in returns to acquisitions that require a shareholder vote and those that do not. This lack of a difference suggests that, on average, for acquiring shareholders the costs outweigh the benefits associated with shareholder voting. Such results suggest that regulators and exchanges alike should be cautious when imposing shareholder voting requirements. The shareholder franchise, a relatively blunt and costly instrument, is best suited to fundamental corporate changes and director elections.

Keywords: Mergers, Acquisitions, Corporate Governance, Shareholder Voting, Shareholder Rights, Shareholder Approval, Stock Exchange Rules, Method of Payment

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Paul and Rodrigues, Usha and Stegemoller, Michael A. and Utke, Steven, Does Shareholder Voting Matter? Evidence from the Takeover Market (August 12, 2017). Wake Forest Law Review, Vol. 53, No. 1, 2018, University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2844943 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2844943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Edelman
, volume 1
Crossref
M Stephen , Bainbridge
Revitalizing SEC Rule 14a-8's Ordinary Business Exclusion: Preventing Shareholder Micromanagement by Proposal
Fordham L Rev
, volume 705 , p. 708 - 719 Posted: 2016
Edelman
, volume 1 , p. 1359 - 60
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Clifford G. Holderness
Equity Issuances and Agency Costs: The Telling Story of Shareholder Approval Around the World
81 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2017 · Downloads: 414
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sridhar Gogineni , John Puthenpurackal
Why do takeover targets protect acquirers? Evidence from force‐the‐vote provisions
Financial Management , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 805 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,690
RANK
255,414
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies