Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Overconfidence and Covenant Protection

40 Pages Posted: 4 Oct 2016

Jan P. Voon

Lingnan University

Chen Lin

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Yiu Ma

Open University of Hong Kong

Date Written: October 2, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines how managerial overconfidence affects covenant usage. We find that creditors significantly use more covenants, increase covenant intensity, and use different types of covenants such as performance-based covenants and capital-based covenants to curb the default risk emanating from managerial overconfidence. Besides, creditors tighten individual covenants such as debt to cash flow covenant and current ratio covenant in order to alleviate the risk exposure. Covenant usage is reported to be quantitatively larger in the debt contracts of firms with higher market-to-book ratios, reflecting that high-growth firms provide the opportunities for overconfident CEOs to invest more intensively. To test for robustness, we perform a natural experiment and find that the Sarbanes Oxley Acts (SOX) implemented in 2002 and beyond serves as an exogenous shock that significantly drove the overconfidence-covenant relation. In addition, we find that a change in CEO overconfidence due to a change in CEO employment leads to a significant change in covenant usage.

Keywords: managerial overconfidence, covenants, credit risk

JEL Classification: G39

Suggested Citation:

Voon, Jan P. and Lin, Chen and Ma, Yiu, Managerial Overconfidence and Covenant Protection (October 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2846666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2846666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Ahmed , And S Duellman
Managerial Overconfidence and Accounting Conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2013
Crossref
D ; V Anantharaman , Fang; And G , Gong
Inside Debt and the Design of Corporate Debt Contracts
Management Science , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S ; M Banerjee , Humphery-Jenner
Crossref
And V Nanda
Restraining Overconfident CEOs through Improved Governance: Evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , p. 2812 - 2858 Posted: 2015
Load more
1 Citations
Surendranath Rakesh Jory , Thanh Ngo , Ca Nguyen
Debt covenants and asset versus equity acquisitions
Journal of Financial Research , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 145 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,557
RANK
207,451
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies