Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Director Networks and Credit Ratings

50 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2016 Last revised: 22 Oct 2016

Bradley W. Benson

Ball State University - Department of Finance and Insurance

Subramanian R. Iyer

University of New Mexico

Kristopher Kemper

Ball State University

Jing Zhao

Portland State University - The School of Business

Date Written: October 14, 2016

Abstract

We explore the impact of director social capital on credit ratings. Social capital is often associated with trust and cultivated through one’s personal networks. We show that firms which employ well-connected directors benefit with a higher credit rating. This result is amplified for firms that add connected directors to a board with lower social capital. The benefit is also shown to be greater during times of economic uncertainty. Furthermore, connected boards lead a firm to higher rating than their Z-scores would otherwise predict. Finally, we show that the results are pronounced around the investment grade threshold. Taken together, this paper shows the economic benefits firms enjoy when they hire connected directors to their board. Our results confirm that the causality runs from the connected boards to firm credit rating.

Keywords: Director Networks, Social Capital, Credit Ratings, Board Connectivity

JEL Classification: G32, G24

Suggested Citation:

Benson, Bradley W. and Iyer, Subramanian R. and Kemper, Kristopher and Zhao, Jing, Director Networks and Credit Ratings (October 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2846187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2846187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
P S Adler , S W Kwon
Capital: Prospects for a New Concept
Academy of Management Review , volume 27 , p. 17 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , R Lafond
The Effects of Corporate Governance on Firms' Credit Ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , p. 203 - 243 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J K. ; L Auh , A Cohen , A Ferrell
What Matters in Corporate Governance?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 783 - 827 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,749
RANK
224,339
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies