Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Insider Trading Activity Separate Winners and Losers when a Peer Firm Restates?

57 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2016 Last revised: 26 Oct 2021

Terrence Blackburne

Oregon State University

Asher Curtis

University of Washington; Department of Accounting

Anna Rossi

University of Oulu - Department of Economics, Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 25, 2021

Abstract

Peer restatements are an ambiguous signal for investors following non-restating firms in the same industry. The literature, however, consistently documents that non-restating firms experience negative returns when a peer restates, on average. Based on a simple single agent model, we predict that prior insider trading activity provides information that investors use to condition their response to a peer-firm restatement. Consistent with our prediction, we find that the negative returns for non-restating firms are mitigated when insiders have been buying and amplified when insiders have been selling. The effect varies cross-sectionally with more weight being placed on prior insider trading activities when non-restating firms have higher information uncertainty, lower costs of biased reporting, or operate in less-concentrated industries. Finally, we report evidence that recent insider trades prior to a peer restatement help investors correctly interpret implications of the peer restatement for future outcomes of the non-restating firm.

Keywords: Insider Trading; Restatements; Disclosure; Information Transfer; Contagion

JEL Classification: G14; M41

Suggested Citation:

Blackburne, Terrence and Curtis, Asher and Rossi, Anna, Does Insider Trading Activity Separate Winners and Losers when a Peer Firm Restates? (October 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2846132 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2846132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A Akhigbe , J Madura
Industry signals relayed by corporate earnings restatements
Financial Review , volume 43 , p. 569 - 589 Posted: 2008
U Ali , D Hirshleifer
Opportunism as a firm and managerial trait: Predicting insider trading profits and misconduct
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 3 , p. 490 - 515 Posted: 2017
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , J D Cox , Q Dupont , J M Karpoff , R Sloan
Financial reporting fraud and other forms of misconduct: A multidisciplinary review of the literature
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 732 - 783 Posted: 2018
C Armstrong , T Blackburne , P Quinn
Are CEO's purchases more profitable than they appear
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 71 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,600
RANK
253,593
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies