Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Executive Cash Bonuses in Providing Individual and Team Incentives

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

72 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2016 Last revised: 10 Sep 2018

Wayne R. Guay

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

John D. Kepler

Stanford Graduate School of Business

David Tsui

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: August 22, 2018

Abstract

Given CEOs’ substantial equity portfolios, much recent literature on CEO incentives regards cash-based bonus plans as largely irrelevant, begging the question of why nearly all CEO compensation plans include such bonuses. We develop a new measure of bonus plan incentives, and document that performance sensitivities are much greater than prior estimates. We also test hypotheses regarding the role of bonuses in providing executives with individualized and team incentives. We find little evidence supporting the individualized incentives hypotheses, but consistent evidence that bonus plans appear to be used to encourage mutual monitoring and to facilitate coordination across the top management team as a whole.

Keywords: executive compensation, managerial incentives, pay-performance sensitivity

JEL Classification: G34, J33, M12

Suggested Citation:

Guay, Wayne R. and Kepler, John and Tsui, David, The Role of Executive Cash Bonuses in Providing Individual and Team Incentives (August 22, 2018). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2849934 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2849934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M Gibbs
Past, present and future compensation research: economist perspectives
Compensation and Benefits Review Posted: 2017
Crossref
J Gittell
Coordinating mechanisms in care provider groups: relational coordination as a mediator and input uncertainty as a moderator of performance effects
Management Science , volume 48 , p. 1408 - 1426 Posted: 2002
B Hall , J Liebman
Are CEOs really paid like bureaucrats?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 113 , p. 653 - 691 Posted: 1998
Crossref
P Healy
The effect of bonus schemes on accounting decisions
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 7 , p. 85 - 107 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
910
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,664
RANK
59,630
21 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies