Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and Corporate Profitability Econometric Analysis of Listed Manufacturing Firms in Sri Lanka

International Journal of Commerce and Management Research, Volume 2, Issue 1, Page No. 53-58, January 2016

6 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2016

Saratha Anandasayanan

University of Jaffna

Velnampy Thirunavukkarasu

University of Jaffna

Date Written: January 8, 2016

Abstract

The issue of dividend policy is a very important one in the current business environment. Dividend policy is the regulations and guidelines that a company uses to decide to make dividend payments to shareholders. The objective of the study is to find out the impact of dividend policy on corporate profitability of Listed manufacturing companies in Sri Lanka. Dividend payout ratio and dividend yield are used to measure the dividend policy while ROE and ROA are used to measure the corporate profitability.

Data for the study were extracted from annual report and accounts of 23 Listed manufacturing companies in Sri Lanka for the period of 2009 to 2014. These data were subjected to regression analysis, using E-view software and the findings indicate that; there is a significant impact of dividend policies of organizations on corporate profitability. It is recommended that Organizations should ensure that they have a good and robust dividend policy in place because it will enhance their profitability and attract investments to the organizations.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Corporate Profitability

Suggested Citation:

Anandasayanan, Saratha and Thirunavukkarasu, Velnampy, Dividend Policy and Corporate Profitability Econometric Analysis of Listed Manufacturing Firms in Sri Lanka (January 8, 2016). International Journal of Commerce and Management Research, Volume 2, Issue 1, Page No. 53-58, January 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2849722
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
S A Adediran , S Alade
Dividend Policy and Corporate Performance in Nigeria
American journal of Social and Management Sciences ISSN , p. 2156 - 1540
Jayaraman Agrawal
Mechanism of Dividend Payment and Leverage Policy
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2004
M Amidu
How does dividend policy affect performance of the firm on Ghana stock Exchange? Investment Management and Financial Innovations , volume 4 , p. 104 - 112 Posted: 2007
R Azhagaiah
The Impact of Dividend Policy on Shareholders Wealth Research Journal of Finance and Economics , p. 53 - 92 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,096
RANK
95,735
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies