Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Succession 'Losers': What Happens to Executives Passed Over for the CEO Job?

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-61

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 16-44

6 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2016 Last revised: 2 Dec 2016

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Stephen Miles

The Miles Group (TMG)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: October 11, 2016

Abstract

Shareholders pay considerable attention to the choice of executive selected as the new CEO whenever a change in leadership takes place. However, without an inside look at the leading candidates to assume the CEO role, it is difficult for shareholders to tell whether the board has made the correct choice. In this Closer Look, we examine CEO succession events among the largest 100 companies over a ten-year period to determine what happens to the executives who were not selected (i.e., the “succession losers”) and how they perform relative to those who were selected (the “succession winners”).

We ask: Are the executives selected for the CEO role really better than those passed over? What are the implications for understanding the labor market for executive talent? Are differences in performance due to operating conditions or quality of available talent? Are boards better at identifying CEO talent than other research generally suggests?

The Stanford Closer Look series is a collection of short case studies through which we explore topics, issues, and controversies in corporate governance and executive leadership. In each study, we take a targeted look at a specific issue that is relevant to the current debate on governance and explain why it is so important. Larcker and Tayan are co-authors of the books “Corporate Governance Matters” and “A Real Look at Real World Corporate Governance.”

Keywords: Succession planning, leadership, chief executive officers, labor market, executives, board of directors, coaching, talent development, CEO turnover, corporate governance research

JEL Classification: G3, G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Miles, Stephen and Tayan, Brian, Succession 'Losers': What Happens to Executives Passed Over for the CEO Job? (October 11, 2016). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-61, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 16-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2849653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2849653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Bryce Tingle
Bad Company! The Assumptions Behind Proxy Advisors' Voting Recommendations
Dalhousie Law Journal, Vol. 37, No. 2 (Fall 2014) · 41 Pages · Posted: 13 May 2015 · Downloads: 135
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Margaret A. Abernethy , Yu Flora Kuang , Bo Qin
The Relation between Strategy, CEO Selection, and Firm Performance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 1575 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
538
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,181
RANK
118,585
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies