Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Experts on the Board and Bank Performance: Evidence from Cooperative Banks

Posted: 8 Oct 2016

Johannes Reeg

University of Wuerzburg

Date Written: May 12, 2016

Abstract

This study refers to the study of Minton et al. (2014) by contributing to the discussion whether their finding that financial experts on the board promote pro-cyclical bank performance arises due to their shareholder-proximity or rather due to their risk-taking attitude, Minton et al. (2014) use a sample of listed US banks and mention the aforementioned possible channels for their findings but do not examine which one (shareholder-proximity or risk-taking attitude) is in response to their findings. For this reason, this study aims to contribute to identify the channels for pro-cyclical bank performance by using a sample of non-listed (cooperative) banks. Results show that financial experts on the board of cooperative banks do not promote pro-cyclical bank performance. Contrary, results show evidence that financial experts on the board of cooperative banks appear to foster long-term bank stability. This finding supports the assertion that the relation between financial experts and bank performance depends on the ownership structure. This outcome may be important for regulators, who should consider this issue when imposing new regulatory constraints concerning financial experts on bank boards. Similarly, results may be relevant for banks with a similar business model (e.g. community banks, savings banks, credit unions) who may aim to adjust their board structure in order to improve bank performance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial Experts, Bank Performance, Financial Crisis, Risk Taking

JEL Classification: G20, G21, G32, G01

Suggested Citation:

Reeg, Johannes, Financial Experts on the Board and Bank Performance: Evidence from Cooperative Banks (May 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2849369
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,086
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies