Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Ownership and Audit Quality: Evidence from Russell Index Reconstitutions

45 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2016 Last revised: 15 Mar 2017

Tao Chen

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Hui Dong

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Chen Lin

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: March 15, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the monitoring effect of institutional investors on portfolio firms’ audit quality. We identify an exogenous discontinuity in institutional ownership around the Russell index threshold to overcome the endogeniety concerns. We find that an exogenous increase in a firm’s institutional ownership significantly increases the readability of its 10-K forms. Furthermore, we show that higher ownership enhances the firm’s auditor committee effectiveness, induces the firm to appoint tough auditors, and increases its quality of internal controls. In addition, auditors perceive the reduction in agency costs and audit risk caused by the changed institutional ownership, and hence charge lower audit fees.

Keywords: Institutional Ownership, Indexing,Readability, Audit Quality, Audit Risk

JEL Classification: G23; G34; G14; M40; M42

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Tao and Dong, Hui and Lin, Chen, Institutional Ownership and Audit Quality: Evidence from Russell Index Reconstitutions (March 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2849685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2849685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
970
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,100
RANK
54,682
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies