Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Surviving a Football Club Crisis: Focus Groups Talking

Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper No. 104

28 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2016

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Date Written: October 9, 2016

Abstract

Outside of an earlier set of research questions, it was amateur football club focus group data which revealed previously unidentified research questions of key interest to participants: how do amateur sports organisations weather a crisis for survival? What are the roles of leadership which empower rebuilding, rather than complete disintegration of an amateur club? Focus group and interview data was combined in the analysis to answer these two questions, supported by the Theory of Practice (Bourdieu). Five case studies clearly identified the roles of habitus and the uses, or transformative capacity, of different forms of capital (in particular, social capital) during crisis management. Two different leadership models were apparent in this Bourdieusian analysis of these amateur clubs which survived such a crisis. The sports field may be seen as solely an arena where there is competition for the ball, but it is also a bounded space of symbolic actions, building culturally identifiable commonalities for participants, and a deep commitment to the specific sport. This study offers a fresh appreciation of the role of leadership and the transformative capacity of different categories of capital in amateur sports club. Such findings may well be transferable to other entities in the not-for-profit and charities sector.

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Cordery, Carolyn J., Surviving a Football Club Crisis: Focus Groups Talking (October 9, 2016). Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper No. 104, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2850190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
M Allison
Sports Clubs in Scotland Posted: 2001
Robert Blackburn , David Stokes
Breaking down the barriers: using focus groups to research small and medium-sized enterprises
International Small Business Journal , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
P Bourdieu
Outline of a Theory of Practice Posted: 1977
P Bourdieu
Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgment of Taste Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,321
RANK
505,214
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies