Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Reputation: Evidence from Biographies of Corporate Directors

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 66, No. 2-3, 2018

54 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2016 Last revised: 3 Oct 2018

Ian D. Gow

Unaffiliated Author

Aida Sijamic Wahid

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto - Accounting

Gwen Yu

University of Michigan

Date Written: August 5, 2018

Abstract

We examine how directors’ reputations are managed through disclosure choices. We focus on disclosures in the director biographies in proxy statements filed with the SEC. We find that a directorship on another board is more likely to be undisclosed when the other firm experienced an adverse event during the director’s tenure. Withholding such information is associated with a more favorable stock price reaction to the director’s appointment and the loss of fewer subsequent directorships. These findings suggest that the concerns about the reputations of corporate directors lead to strategic disclosure choices that have real consequences in capital and labor markets.

Keywords: Director monitoring, reputational concerns, strategic disclosure

JEL Classification: M4, G3, G14

Suggested Citation:

Gow, Ian D. and Wahid, Aida Sijamic and Wahid, Aida Sijamic and Yu, Gwen, Managing Reputation: Evidence from Biographies of Corporate Directors (August 5, 2018). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 66, No. 2-3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2850576 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2850576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
886
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,135
RANK
61,863
4 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies