Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Size Matters: Financial Reporting by the IMF and World Bank

Working Paper 106

35 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2016 Last revised: 8 Jun 2017

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Giuseppe Grossi

University of Siena - Department of Business and Social Studies

Date Written: October 9, 2016

Abstract

Among the largest entities in the world are the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Group. From the perspective of researchers in accounting, such size is used as a proxy for political visibility; and often implicit asymmetries of power and information become explicit in such research. This context of political visibility leads to the research question in this study: do the means by which these two entities prepare financial reports compromise accountability through financial results by selective choices of GAAP? This study will offer a detailed analysis of the financial reporting in 2013 by the World Bank and the IMF, including a pro-forma consolidation to understand what might be achieved by consolidation as prescribed in GAAP. Most notable in the financial reporting are (1) a mixed-standard prescription, from standards developed for the corporate sector. (2) A failure to consolidate entities under the in-substance control of the ‘parent’ in the group. There is also some lack of transparency concerning the level of intra-entity transactions. This study demonstrates the implications of political visibility, being a possible driver to minimise apparent size, as reflected in accounting policy choices.

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Grossi, Giuseppe, Size Matters: Financial Reporting by the IMF and World Bank (October 9, 2016). Working Paper 106, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2850192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2850192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Daniele Alesani , Gwenda Jensen , Ileana Steccolini
IPSAS adoption by the World Food Programme: an application of the contingency model to intergovernmental organisations
International Journal of Public Sector Performance Management , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 80 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Marcia Annisette
The True Nature of the World Bank
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 303 - 326 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Annual Report Posted: 2011-08-02
Crossref
Michael N Barnett , Martha Finnemore
The politics, power and pathologies of international organizations
International Organization , volume 53 , p. 699 - 732 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
986
RANK
697,608
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies