Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Group Affiliation and Default Prediction

Management Science 68 (8): 3559-3584, May 2019

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 16-46

86 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2016 Last revised: 16 Aug 2019

William H. Beaver

Stanford University

Stefano Cascino

London School of Economics

Maria M. Correia

London School of Economics and Political Science

Maureen F. McNichols

Stanford University

Date Written: August 1, 2018

Abstract

Using a large sample of business groups from more than one hundred countries around the world, we show that group information matters for parent and subsidiary default prediction. Group firms may support each other when in financial distress. Potential group support represents an off-balance sheet asset for the receiving firm and an off-balance sheet liability for the firm offering support. We find that subsidiary information improves parent default prediction over and above group-level consolidated information possibly because intra-group exposures are netted out upon consolidation. Moreover, we document that the improvements in parent default prediction are decreasing in the extent of parent-country financial reporting transparency which suggests that within-group information matters most when consolidated financial statements are expected to be of lower quality. We also show that parent and other group-firms’ default risk exhibits predictive power for subsidiary default. Lastly, we find that within-group information explains cross-sectional variation in CDS spreads. Taken together, our findings contribute to prior literature on default prediction and have direct relevance to investors, credit-rating agencies and accounting regulators.

Keywords: Default prediction, Business groups, Consolidation, Financial reporting transparency, Credit spreads

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, G33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Beaver, William H. and Cascino, Stefano and Correia, Maria M. and McNichols, Maureen F., Group Affiliation and Default Prediction (August 1, 2018). Management Science 68 (8): 3559-3584, May 2019, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 16-46, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2850458 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2850458
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in U.K. private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
W H Beaver , M Correia , M Mcnichols
Financial statement analysis and the prediction of financial distress
Foundations and Trends in Accounting , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 173 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Beuselinck , S Cascino , M Deloof , A Vanstralen
Earnings management in multinational corporations Posted: 2018
Crossref
S Claessens , S Djankov , L Lang
The separation of ownership and control in East Asian Corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 58 , p. 81 - 112 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,576
RANK
43,934
16 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies