Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
White Lies and Good Faith Dishonesty: Sometimes, Presumably, Directors Must Employ Subterfuge to Protect the Corporation

8 Debate L. Rev. 63 (2016)

39 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2016 Last revised: 22 Oct 2016

Yair Even-Tal

Independent

Date Written: October 5, 2016

Abstract

The courts have long struggled with a standard for reviewing board of directors' exercise of corporate control against a fellow director through strategic unequal treatment. While validating corporate secrecy between directors raises old-fashioned questions of corporate morality, there are presumably circumstances in which it is lawful and equitable to withhold information from a fellow director in order to protect the corporation. It seems that in certain contexts, disabling corporate boards from using their best business judgment to not prematurely disclose a planned action that would impair the interests of a director who is perceived to be harmful to the enterprise, contradict their fiduciary duties and would jeopardize stockholders' welfare far more than would strategic silence.

In the recent case of Optimiscorp v. Waite, the Court of Chancery and Delaware Supreme Court were called to confront head on with this fundamental question: Can a board of directors call a special board meeting without pre-disclosing its plan to encroach upon fellow director's governance rights, acting in subjective good faith and honest belief the action is in the best interests of the corporation? Although the judicial scrutiny applied to unequal treatment of directors has shifted throughout the years, courts have treated such actions with suspicion, applying general reasoning grounded in fairness principles but without articulating why or what equitable standard of conduct has been violated.

This Article examines the Delaware courts' most recent response to the limits of corporate boards' authority to treat fellow directors unequally. Particularly, I argue that the Delaware Supreme Court in OptimisCorp v. Waite failed to distinguish adequately those situations in which blindsiding a director constitutes inappropriate directorial behavior that improperly encroaches upon cognizable rights from the set of situations in which merely not disclosing its plan prematurely should not eliminate directors' protection of the business judgment rule. Thus, I argue the court's analysis and standard of review of exercise of such corporate power need significant refinement.

Keywords: Corporate Law, Loyalty, Fiduciary Duties, Corporate Governance, Directors, Boards, Shareholders, Director Liability, Delaware, Delaware Court of Chancery, Delaware Supreme Court, Optimis Corp v. Waite

JEL Classification: K22, G34

Suggested Citation:

Even-Tal, Yair, White Lies and Good Faith Dishonesty: Sometimes, Presumably, Directors Must Employ Subterfuge to Protect the Corporation (October 5, 2016). 8 Debate L. Rev. 63 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851583 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2851583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
849
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,532
RANK
65,657
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies