Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital-Market Effects of Securities Regulation: Prior Conditions, Implementation, and Enforcement

Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 29, No. 11, pp. 2885-2924, 2016

79 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2016

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 13, 2016

Abstract

We examine the capital-market effects of changes in securities regulation in the European Union (EU) aimed at reducing market abuse and increasing transparency. To estimate causal effects for the population of EU firms, we exploit that for plausibly exogenous reasons, like national legislative procedures, EU countries adopted these directives at different times. We find significant increases in market liquidity, but the effects are stronger in countries with stricter implementation and traditionally more stringent securities regulation. The findings suggest that countries with initially weaker regulation do not catch up with stronger countries, and that countries diverge more upon harmonizing regulation.

Keywords: Capital market regulation, Enforcement, Disclosure, Law and finance, European Union, Liquidity

JEL Classification: F30, G15, G18, G30, K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans Bonde and Hail, Luzi and Leuz, Christian, Capital-Market Effects of Securities Regulation: Prior Conditions, Implementation, and Enforcement (October 13, 2016). Review of Financial Studies, Vol. 29, No. 11, pp. 2885-2924, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
A Ackerman , J Van Halteren , E Maug
Insider trading legislation and acquisition announcements: Do laws matter? Working paper Posted: 2008
A Agrawal
The impact of investor protection law on corporate policy and performance: Evidence from the blue sky laws
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 107 , p. 417 - 452 Posted: 2013
Crossref
J Altonji , T Elder , C Taber
Selection on observed and unobserved variables: Assessing the effectiveness of catholic schools
Journal of Political Economy , volume 113 , p. 151 - 84 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Tao Huang , Fei Wu , Jing Yu , Bohui Zhang
Investor Protection and Value Impact of Stock Liquidity
Journal of International Business Studies, Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 16 Feb 2014 · Last revised: 19 Oct 2018 · Downloads: 425
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
456
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,276
RANK
5,256
1 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies