Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assurance of Integrated Reports: The State of the Art

Posted: 15 Oct 2016

Madalina Dumitru

Bucharest University of Economic Studies

Raluca Guse

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Date Written: January 31, 2016

Abstract

The focus of this paper is the issue of assurance of different sustainability, social, environmental or governance sections of companies’ annual reports, which fall under the umbrella of integrated reports. The main research questions are: which are the sections assured; to what extent are the accounting and audit professionals involved in the assurance process of integrated reports; and which are the standards used in the assurance missions. We explore the integrated reports issued in 2014 by 98 companies included in the International Integrated Reporting Council’s Pilot Programme. Our main conclusions are that most of the companies obtain assurance only for a part of the information disclosed in the integrated reports, most of the reports are assured by the accountancy companies and the most used standard is ISAE 3000. The article is important for the accounting practitioners as it presents new opportunities for the development of the profession. From the academic point of view, the discrepancy between our results and the results of the studies based on sustainability reports proves that the assurance of the integrated reports is a specific theme, which should be studied separately.

Keywords: assurance, accounting professionals, integrated reporting, Pilot Programme, assurance standards

JEL Classification: M14, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Dumitru, Madalina and Guse, Raluca, Assurance of Integrated Reports: The State of the Art (January 31, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851813
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,415
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies