Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Life-Cycle Influence Board Composition?

26 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2016 Last revised: 15 Oct 2016

Attila Balogh

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance

Date Written: October 14, 2016

Abstract

Using a sample of over 6,000 firm years and 36,000 directorships, we examine whether board composition follows a predictable pattern consistent with firm life-cycle. Our findings build on the established notions on board monitoring and mentoring, and extend the theoretical work by incorporating the life-cycle dimension. Our models explain as much as 71% of the variation in board composition and find that early stage, growth, mature and declining firm boards differ significantly. Consistent with the resource dependence theory, we find that mature firms have larger boards and higher expertise diversity, including expertise in non-business fields. Theory also suggests, and we confirm that the agency problem is mitigated by mature firms through the appointment of independent directors and an independent non-executive chair. Collectively, our results suggest that life-cycle has a significant impact on board composition.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Board of directors, Professional expertise, Life-cycle theory

JEL Classification: G32, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Balogh, Attila, Does Life-Cycle Influence Board Composition? (October 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2851327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,681
RANK
225,084
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies