Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Voluntary Clawback Adoptions on Corporate Tax Policy

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2016 Last revised: 10 Mar 2019

Thomas R. Kubick

University of Nebraska-Lincoln

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Zac Wiebe

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Sam M. Walton College of Business

Date Written: November 10, 2018

Abstract

Companies are adopting executive compensation recoupment ("clawback") policies to discourage aggressive financial reporting choices. Recent research suggests clawback policies might encourage other, less aggressive, means of meeting earnings expectations. We suggest that reducing income tax expense is one potential avenue for meeting earnings expectations. We find that GAAP effective tax rates are lower after clawback adoption and that this decrease results from increased investments in tax planning. We identify three tax planning activities that clawback adopting companies invest in to lower their effective tax rates: purchases of auditor-provided tax services, increased connections to other low-tax companies, and use of tax havens. We also provide evidence that the observed decrease in effective tax rates does not result from increased use of opportunistic income tax accruals, and that effective tax rate decreases are stronger among companies that adopt more robust clawback policies. Additional tests indicate that companies experience lower tax outcome volatility and report longer, more readable tax footnotes following clawback adoption. Overall, our results reveal a positive spillover effect of clawback adoption on corporate tax policy.

Keywords: earnings management, clawback, disclosure, tax

JEL Classification: G30, H25, H26, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Kubick, Thomas R. and Omer, Thomas C. and Wiebe, Zac, The Effect of Voluntary Clawback Adoptions on Corporate Tax Policy (November 10, 2018). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851035 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2851035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
556
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,064
RANK
113,793
3 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies