Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Consequences of Extending the Use of Fair Value Accounting in Regulatory Capital Calculations

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2016 Last revised: 19 Oct 2016

Justin Chircop

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Zoltán Novotny-Farkas

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: October 12, 2016

Abstract

We investigate the economic consequences of the new regulatory requirement under Basel III to include unrealized fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale (AFS) securities in the calculation of regulatory capital. Regulators argue that such an inclusion would result in greater regulatory discipline, while critics contend that it would increase regulatory costs. Using a comprehensive sample of U.S. banks, we find that news indicating an increased likelihood of this rule being implemented lead to negative market reactions that are strongly associated with the relative amount of unrealized fair value gains and losses. This finding is consistent with the regulatory cost argument. Moreover, exploiting a differences-in-differences approach we also find that banks affected by this provision reduce their investment in riskier illiquid AFS securities relative to unaffected banks. These results suggest that extending the use of fair values for regulatory purposes leads to a reduction in ex ante risk taking.

Keywords: Banks, Fair Value Accounting, Prudential Regulation, Regulatory Capital

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chircop, Justin and Novotny-Farkas, Zoltán, The Economic Consequences of Extending the Use of Fair Value Accounting in Regulatory Capital Calculations (October 12, 2016). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852427
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,567
RANK
258,355
19 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies