Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ownership Concentration, Client Importance, and Earnings Management: Evidence from Pakistani Business Groups

36 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2016 Last revised: 15 Nov 2016

Aamir Bhutta

Government College University, Faisalabad

Johan Knif

Hanken School of Economics

Muhammad Fayyaz Sheikh

G.C. University

Date Written: July 10, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the earnings management behavior in Pakistani business groups by empirically testing the impact of ownership concentration as well as client importance on earnings management. A novel measure for client importance is proposed. This measure uses information on whether the business group is using the same auditor for two or more of its affiliates. The study finds a positive impact of group affiliation on earnings management. However, this relation is weak during the energy-crisis period, suggesting an increased reliance of Pakistan business groups on external capital markets and a redistribution of external financing through transactions on group-internal capital markets. The findings also reveal efficient earnings management in non-family business groups as well as in independently operated family firms. Moreover, there seems to be a positive and non-linear relation between group affiliate’s ownership concentration and earnings management. The presence of institutional investors constrains the business groups from earnings management and this is mainly due to the proportion of domestic institutional investors. Finally, the results indicate a statistically significant positive relation between client importance and earnings management in family-owned business groups. This result is not sensitive to the size of the auditor firm used.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Ownership Concentration, Client Importance, Pakistani Business Groups

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Bhutta, Aamir and Knif, Johan Anders and Sheikh, Muhammad Fayyaz, Ownership Concentration, Client Importance, and Earnings Management: Evidence from Pakistani Business Groups (July 10, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2852255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,747
RANK
297,230
7 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies