Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Interference between Conservatism and Corporate Governance

Olimid, Lavinia, Calu, Daniela Artemisa St. and Viorel, Avram, On the Interference between Conservatism And Corporate Governance, Revista Internal Auditing & Risk Management, nr. 9-10/2008, pp. 75-82

7 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2016

Lavinia Olimid

Academia de Studii Economice Bucuresti

Daniela Artemisa St. Calu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Avram Viorel

Independent

Date Written: October 13, 2016

Abstract

It has been suggested that accounting conservatism plays an important role in corporate governance. Our assumption is that conservative accounting is done by accountants that have a thorough understanding of basic conservative accounting. In our paper, we tested the attitude towards conservatism of individual accountants regarding issues linked to profit measurement and profit distribution. The results have implications for the process of disseminating the benefits of adopting a corporate governance code by Romanian companies.

Keywords: corporate governance, conservatism, profit measurement, profit distribution

JEL Classification: M 40

Suggested Citation:

Olimid, Lavinia and Calu, Daniela Artemisa St. and Viorel, Avram, On the Interference between Conservatism and Corporate Governance (October 13, 2016). Olimid, Lavinia, Calu, Daniela Artemisa St. and Viorel, Avram, On the Interference between Conservatism And Corporate Governance, Revista Internal Auditing & Risk Management, nr. 9-10/2008, pp. 75-82, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,699
RANK
538,134
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies