Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Cost of Debt and Hong Kong Politically Connected Firms

52 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2016

Mark Bliss

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Anson Wong

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

John Goodwin

Corvinus University

Date Written: October 14, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the association between Hong Kong politically connected firms and their cost of debt. We extend the knowledge of this association by comparing our results with those of Bliss and Gul (2012) who used Malaysian data to examine it. We find that Hong Kong politically connected firms have lower interest rates than non politically connected firms. Our result contrasts with Bliss and Gul (2012), but is consistent with the result of Houston, Jiang, Lin and Ma (2014) who used U.S. data. We argue that these contrasting results can be attributed to differences in the levels of lending institution sophistication, and of economic wealth and development between Hong Kong and the U.S. on the one hand and Malaysia on the other.

Keywords: Political connection, Debt cost

JEL Classification: D72, G32

Suggested Citation:

Bliss, Mark and Wong, Anson and Goodwin, John, The Association between Cost of Debt and Hong Kong Politically Connected Firms (October 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852434 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2852434
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,829
RANK
552,669
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies