Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: An Empirical Analysis of Firms in Petroleum and Petroleum Products Distributors in Nigeria

Researchjournali's Journal of Accounting, Vol. 2, No. 2, June 2014

18 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2016

Junaidu Kurawa

Bayero University

Saheed Abdulrahman

Bayero University

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between corporate governance and earnings management of the six petroleum and petroleum products distributors out of the nine petroleum products distributors that are listed on the floor of the Nigeria Stock Exchange. Data were collected from the Annual reports and accounts of the sampled companies covering the period of ten years from 2003 to 2012. Descriptive statistics, correlation as well as panel data analysis (Random-effect GLS regression techniques) were utilized as analytical tools in the study. The results indicate that going concern is significantly and positively driven by board composition and management equity holding while board composition, CEO duality, and ownership concentration show an insignificant (2%) negative relationship. It is recommended that the position of the Chairman and Managing Director should be separated; a competent board size of 8 to 15 members should be encouraged, so as to ensure strong compliance to the Code of Corporate Governance 2006, and uphold ethical standard of accounting profession in resources management to guide against creative accounting and earnings manipulations which could lead to going concern problems.

Keywords: corporate governance, earnings management, ethical standard and going concern.

Suggested Citation:

Kurawa, Junaidu and Abdulrahman, Saheed, Corporate Governance and Earnings Management: An Empirical Analysis of Firms in Petroleum and Petroleum Products Distributors in Nigeria (2014). Researchjournali's Journal of Accounting, Vol. 2, No. 2, June 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,178
RANK
220,473
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies