Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development and Application of the Directors’ Duty of Care and Diligence Rule in Australia

51 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2016

Attila Balogh

University of Melbourne - Department of Finance

Date Written: April 11, 2012

Abstract

This paper places Australian directors’ duties legislation in the corporate governance context. A discussion of the general principles and the sources of duties is designed to offer an insight into the various areas of law that govern the conduct of company directors. Focusing on directors’ duty of care and diligence, we offer a detailed examination of the wording of the first Australian statutory provision. Further, we provide a comprehensive analysis of how the law evolved over the past two centuries. An exhaustive review of published cases provides the backbone of the study to highlight the interaction between statutory provisions and the evolution of directors’ duties through Australian case law. We review recent cases to provide an insight into the state of the art in Australia. Exploring the development of the law through recent cases allows the consolidation of current knowledge into a concise set of learnings.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board of Directors, Directors' Duties, Duty of Care

JEL Classification: G32, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Balogh, Attila, The Development and Application of the Directors’ Duty of Care and Diligence Rule in Australia (April 11, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2852066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Morley v Australian Securities and Investments Commission Posted: 2010-12
Crossref
HIH Insurance Ltd and HIH Casualty and General Insurance Ltd, Re; Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) v Adler
Re Property Force Consultants Pty Ltd , volume 167 Posted: 1997
Qd R , volume 300 , issue 9 Posted: 1995-06
Crossref
Daniels
Posted: 1995-05
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,534
RANK
151,887
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies