Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Expert CEOs and Earnings Management around Initial Public Offerings (IPOs)

45 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2016 Last revised: 19 Oct 2022

Dimitrios Gounopoulos

University of Bath - School of Management

Hang Pham

University of Sussex

Date Written: November 7, 2017

Abstract

We study whether the financial experience of chief executive officers (CEOs) is associated with earnings management around initial public offerings (IPOs). Examining the sample of U.S. initial public offerings (IPOs) from 2003 to 2011, we find that newly listed firms with financial expert CEOs are less likely to engage in earnings management than those with non-financial expert CEOs. We also document that for IPO firms managed by financial expert CEOs the at-issue earnings management is positively associated with future accounting performance and not significantly related to post-issue long-term stock abnormal returns. This indicates that financial expert CEOs tend to be informative in financial reporting in order to allow investors to properly gauge the fair value of the firm. Overall, our findings support the importance of CEO financial experience in the provision of higher quality financial reporting.

Keywords: IPOs, Financial expertise, CEOs, Earnings management

JEL Classification: G10, G14, G3

Suggested Citation:

Gounopoulos, Dimitrios and Pham, Hang, Financial Expert CEOs and Earnings Management around Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) (November 7, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852601 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2852601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,981
RANK
286,433
10 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies