Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between CEO Duality and Firm Performance: An Analysis Using Panel Data Approach

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XV, No. 2, April 2016, pp. 37-58

Posted: 18 Oct 2016

Dr.Anjala Kalsie

Fortune Institute of International Business

Shikha Mittal Shrivastav

IILm Academy of Higher Learning

Date Written: October 18, 2016

Abstract

This paper seeks to examine the relationship between the CEO duality (one person serving the role of both chairman of the board and CEO) and firm performance. Existing literature on CEO duality is based on two theories of corporate governance. While agency theory suggests that CEO duality negatively affects performance, stewardship theory favors CEO duality and argues that it positively impacts the firm performance. The present paper adds to the existing literature by employing panel data of 145 non-financial companies listed on National Stock Exchange of India for a period of five years, i.e., 2008-2012. Firm performance has been measured using Tobin’s Q as a market-based measure, and Return on Equity (ROE) as accounting-based measure. Panel data is analyzed using fixed effect within and Least Square Dummy Variable (LSDV) model, random effect model and Feasible Generalized Least Square (FGLS) model. The paper concludes that when Tobin’s Q is used as performance measure, the presence of CEO duality has a negative impact on firm performance. In case of ROE, the relationship is negative with fixed effect model and significantly negative with FGLS model.

Suggested Citation:

Kalsie, Anjala and Mittal Shrivastav, Shikha, The Relationship between CEO Duality and Firm Performance: An Analysis Using Panel Data Approach (October 18, 2016). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XV, No. 2, April 2016, pp. 37-58, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2853984
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,588
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies