Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise of Corporate Governance

19 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2016 Last revised: 13 Jan 2017

Alon Bebchuk

Data Lab, Columbia Law School

Robert J. Jackson, Jr.

New York University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: October 17, 2016

Abstract

We provide a quantitative metric for assessing the increase in the importance of and attention to corporate governance over the past two decades. The metric is based on the use of the terms corporate governance or governance by publicly traded companies. In particular, we use Python natural-language processing to examine the number of times such terms were used in the 10,000 annual proxy statements of S&P 500 companies filed between 1994 and 2015. We document a dramatic increase: the percentage of companies that use the term governance increased from below 20% to close to 100%, and the average number of mentions per page increased eightfold — from 0.10 to 0.82. This dramatic increase in the use of governance terms took place during 1994–2004, with especially steep increases in 2003 and 2004 after the 2002 passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation following the Enron and Worldcom scandals, and such use has remained at a high level since then. We conclude by suggesting alternative explanations for the documented rise in governance discourse, and we propose tests for investigating these explanations.

JEL Classification: G30, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Alon and Jackson, Jr., Robert J., The Rise of Corporate Governance (October 17, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2853768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
449
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,193
RANK
147,479
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies