Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Attributes and Real Activities Manipulation of Listed Manufacturing Firms in Nigeria

Posted: 22 Oct 2016

Ahmad Bello

Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, Nigeria; Univerisiti Utara Malaysia

Garba Ibrahim

Independent

Dr. Hamisu Suleiman Kargi

Independent

Date Written: October 21, 2015

Abstract

This paper examined the effect of audit committee attributes in deterring real activities manipulation of listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria for a period of six years (2008-­2013). The study used multiple regressions to analyze the data obtained from Annual Reports and Accounts of listed manufacturing concerns in Nigeria using the residuals of Roychowdhury (2006) to determine Real Activities Manipulation (RAM). Audit committees attributes were used as exogenous variables of the study. The finding reveals that audit committee attributes especially financial literacy is effective in restraining RAM, but other audit committee characteristics like independence, meeting, and size were found to be less effective in constraining RAM practice of listed manufacturing firms in Nigeria. Therefore, it is recommended that listed manufacturing firms should increase the proportion of members with financial acumen in the audit committee, because they are viable in constraining operational manipulative behaviour. Regulatory authorities like Securities and Exchange Commission, Nigerian Stock Exchange and Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria should embark on their surveillance and monitoring and ensure that, listed manufacturing firms are producing credible and reliable financial statements free from deception and window dressing in Nigeria for the consumption of various stakeholders.

Keywords: Real Activity Manipulation; Audit Committee Attributes; Manufacturing Firms; Nigeria

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Bello, Ahmad and Ibrahim, Garba and Suleiman Kargi, Hamisu, Audit Committee Attributes and Real Activities Manipulation of Listed Manufacturing Firms in Nigeria (October 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2856912
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,250
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies