Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Bullwhip Matter Economically? A Cross-Sectional Firm-Level Analysis

42 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2016

Opher Baron

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Dan Segal

Reichman University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 20, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the bullwhip has economic consequences at the firm level. In particular, we examine the relation between the bullwhip and various accounting/financial performance measures including equity returns, cash flows, earnings, and earnings attributes such as earnings quality and earnings persistence, using a large panel of cross-sectional firm-level data. Performance is measured both in terms of first-moment mean effects and second-moment volatility effects. Contrary to the maintained assumption of economics and operations management scholars, our analysis yields results that are inconsistent with the notion that the bullwhip has significant negative economic consequences at the firm level. In particular, we find almost no significant statistical/economic relations between accounting/financial measures of profitability and the bullwhip, both with and without covariate controls.

Keywords: Bullwhip, Earnings Attributes, Economic Consequences

JEL Classification: M11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Baron, Opher and Callen, Jeffrey L. and Segal, Dan, Does the Bullwhip Matter Economically? A Cross-Sectional Firm-Level Analysis (October 20, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2856510 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2856510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,825
RANK
472,791
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies