Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of the 2006 Sec Executive Compensation Disclosure Rules on Managerial Incentives

Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, 2016, DOI: 10.1016/j.jcae.2016.09.003

Posted: 31 Oct 2016

Reza Espahbodi

Ball State University

Nan Liu

Peking University

Amy Westbrook

Washburn University School of Law

Date Written: October 25, 2016

Abstract

In 2006, the SEC amended the disclosure requirements for executive compensation and stock ownership. This paper examines the effects of these amendments on (1) the association between equity-based executive incentives and firm payout choice, and (2) the association between executive compensation and earnings management. We find that after the effective date of the SEC rules, the positive associations between executive stock option holdings and firm open-market repurchases, and between executive shareholdings and firm dividend payouts, have weakened. In addition, the positive associations between bonus and discretionary accruals, between bonus and real earnings management, and between equity compensation and real earnings management, have decreased. In general, these findings are consistent with the notion that the 2006 SEC disclosure rules lowered management's self-interested actions by mitigating the information asymmetry between investors and managers.

Keywords: executive compensation, payout policy, real earnings management, accruals management

Suggested Citation:

Espahbodi, Reza and Liu, Nan and Westbrook, Amy, The Effects of the 2006 Sec Executive Compensation Disclosure Rules on Managerial Incentives (October 25, 2016). Journal of Contemporary Accounting & Economics, 2016, DOI: 10.1016/j.jcae.2016.09.003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2858948
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,240
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies