Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mergers & Acquisitions and Banks Performance in Pakistan

Journal of Business Management and Economics 3: 10 October (2015)

5 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2016

Ammar Ahmed

Bahauddin Zakariya University

Muhammad Nadeem

Mari Petroleum Company Limited

Date Written: October 10, 2015

Abstract

Pakistan is one of those developing countries in which law and order and security issues are the major problems. Economic conditions are not ideal due to which many firms are doing merger and acquisition to improve their financial performance. Our research study has tried to measure the affect of these merger and acquisitions on the financial performance of the banks in Pakistan. The main objective is to check whether merger and acquisition in banks of Pakistan has increased their performance or not. Merger and acquisition is the independent variable whereas financial performance is the dependent variable. Financial performance is determined through liquidity ratios (DTA, CTA), profitability ratios (ROA, ROE) and solvency ratios (D/E, DR). Data is collected from annual reports of the banks. Only those banks are included which are listed in the Karachi stock exchange in Pakistan. Our results showed that performance of mostly banks increased after merger and acquisition but it is not true for all the banks which reveals that banks should consider more information and detailed analysis should be done before doing merger and acquisition in Pakistan. Results of this research would also help to different stakeholders like researchers, investors, creditors, employees, bankers etc. in understanding the importance of merger and acquisitions.

Keywords: Merger & Acquisition, Banks, Financial Performance, Stakeholders

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Ammar and Nadeem, Muhammad, Mergers & Acquisitions and Banks Performance in Pakistan (October 10, 2015). Journal of Business Management and Economics 3: 10 October (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2858849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
G Arnold
Mergers. Corporate Financial Management
Financial Times , p. 841 - 889 Posted: 1998
A Banerjee , E W Eckard
Are mega-mergers anticompetitive? Evidence from the first great merger wave
Rand Journal of Economics , volume 29 , p. 803 - 827 Posted: 1998
Crossref
G De-Nicolo
Bank Consolidation, Internationalization and Conglomeration": Trends and Implications for Financial Risks Posted: 2003
Gary A Dymski
The global bank merger wave: implications for developing countries
The Developing Economies , p. 435 - 66 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,198
RANK
234,143
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies