Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Analysis of Corporate Governance Disclosure in Nigerian and South African Banks

Asian Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting 1(3): 1-15, 2016

15 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2016 Last revised: 19 Nov 2016

Araniyar Isukul

Rivers State University

John Jideofo Chizea

Baze University

Date Written: October 24, 2016

Abstract

This research examines corporate governance disclosure in Nigerian and South African Banks using the unweighted disclosure index technique. This research provides a cross sectional examination of corporate governance disclosure practices in the annual reports of 10 listed banks in Nigeria and South Africa for the year 2013. The results suggest that Nigerian and South African banks have a high level corporate governance disclosure. However, Nigeria and South African banks have low levels of voluntary corporate governance disclosure. Furthermore, in reporting of voluntary corporate governance disclosure, Nigerian banks appear to be collating information with no link to the overall business strategy of the organization while the South African banks have a more robust approach to voluntary corporate governance disclosure as they apply international guidelines such as the global reporting initiative in reporting voluntary corporate governance disclosure.

Keywords: Corporate governance disclosure, Corporate Social Responsibilty, Developing Countries, Agency Theory

Suggested Citation:

Isukul, Araniyar and Chizea, John Jideofo, A Comparative Analysis of Corporate Governance Disclosure in Nigerian and South African Banks (October 24, 2016). Asian Journal of Economics, Business and Accounting 1(3): 1-15, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2858144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
S J Gray , G K Meek , C B Roberts
International capital market pressures and voluntary annual report disclosures by
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 68 Posted: 1995
Crossref
N Brennan , J Solomon
Corporate governance, accountability and mechanisms of accountability: An overview
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 7 , p. 885 - 906 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Haniffa , T E Cooke
Culture, Corporate governance and disclosure in Malaysian corporations
Abacus , volume 3 , p. 317 - 349 Posted: 2002
Crossref
N Abdelkarim , Y A Shahin
Arqawi BM. Taxation , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 62 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
658,366
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies