Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implied Tradeoffs of CFO Accounting Expertise: Evidence from Firm-Manager Matching

59 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2016 Last revised: 15 Apr 2020

Darren Bernard

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Weili Ge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Dawn A. Matsumoto

University of Washington - Department of Accounting

Sara Toynbee

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

We present evidence that, while individuals with accounting expertise bring key skills to financial reporting responsibilities of the CFO position, they tend to lack educational and career experiences relevant to non-accounting responsibilities (e.g., operations and strategy). Assuming boards’ perceptions of CFO accounting expertise are correct on average, we provide evidence of tradeoffs of CFO accounting expertise by examining how differences in CFO backgrounds shape executive employment decisions. Firms with greater demand for non-accounting expertise are less likely to hire an accounting expert CFO, consistent with ex ante firm-manager matching. Ex post, significant declines in firm-manager fit after appointment predict CFO turnover and other compensating changes in the composition of the senior management team. Accounting expert CFOs are also less likely to become CEOs, suggesting that CFO experience does not fully mitigate these tradeoffs. Collectively, the results suggest important tradeoffs inherent to CFO accounting expertise that shape the structure of the senior management team.

Keywords: Firm-manager matching, CFO expertise, top management team, Chief Financial Officer

JEL Classification: M41, M54, J24

Suggested Citation:

Bernard, Darren and Ge, Weili and Matsumoto, Dawn and Toynbee, Sara, Implied Tradeoffs of CFO Accounting Expertise: Evidence from Firm-Manager Matching (April 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2858681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2858681
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
J Aier , J Comprix , M Gunlock , D Lee
The financial expertise of CFOs and accounting restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Allgood , K A Farrell
The match between CEO and firm
Journal of Business , volume 76 , issue 2 , p. 317 - 341 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Angrist , J Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
M Bertrand , A Schoar
Managing with style: The effect of managers on firm policies
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 1169 - 1208 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
666
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,345
RANK
90,228
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies