Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of Accounting and Financial Management Practices among SMEs in Uttar Pradesh (India)

Posted: 28 Oct 2016 Last revised: 19 Nov 2016

Amit Kumar Dwivedi

Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII); Indian Institute of Management (IIM-A), Ahmedabad

Dr. Punit Kumar Dwivedi

Oxford International College, Indore

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 27, 2016

Abstract

Accounting is the backbone of the business world. After all, accounting was created in response to the development of trade and commerce. The concepts of assets, liabilities, and income and the need to reconcile these areas is still the basis for all accounting functions today. Accounting gives us the financial snapshot of the business in order to make solid decisions about the current status or projected future health of business. One of the factors that determine the performance of business organizations is effective use of accounting and financial management reports. However, the applications of these techniques are limited in Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in India. This study aims to examine the accounting and financial management practices among SMEs in Uttar-Pradesh of India and to investigate perceived usefulness of these practices for their decision making. A survey was carried out on SMEs in the manufacturing sector listed by SME Directorate of Uttar Pradesh State. A random sample of 76 SMEs was interviewed with a well structured pre-tested questionnaire for the present study. The findings from the survey provided useful insights about the current accounting and financial management practices and the level of apparent usefulness of the accounting reports among SMEs. Overall, the study concludes that there is a wide gap between theory of accounting and financial management and actual practices by the manufacturing SMEs in U.P. While exploratory nature of the study does not allow its results to be generalized, but it suggests the need for further theory development in the field of accounting and financial management for SMEs.

Keywords: Accounting Practices, SME, Financial Management, Manufacturing Sector

JEL Classification: M41, F65

Suggested Citation:

Dwivedi, Amit Kumar and Dwivedi, Dr. Punit Kumar, Adoption of Accounting and Financial Management Practices among SMEs in Uttar Pradesh (India) (October 27, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2859909
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,023
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies