Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Board Diversity on Earnings Quality: An Empirical Study of Listed Firms in Vietnam

Hoang, T.C., Abeysekera, I. and Ma, S. (2017). The effect of board diversity on earnings quality: An empirical study of listed firms in Vietnam. Australian Accounting Review, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 220-232.

Posted: 27 Oct 2016 Last revised: 29 Nov 2017

Trang Hoang

Ton Duc Thang University

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Shiguang Ma

University of Wollongong - School of Accounting Economics and Finance

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Debates around sound corporate governance propose board diversity as a key attribute to sufficiently challenge executive management for stakeholder engagement. This study contributes to this debate by empirically investigating the effect of board diversity on corporate social disclosure (CSD) of Vietnamese listed firms. The study finds a significantly positive effect of diversity-inboards (dissimilarities among directors within a board, i.e., demographic attributes of board members) on CSD while diversity-of-boards (dissimilarities among firm boards, i.e., board structure) has no effect on CSD. The results contribute by showing that a single theoretical approach can provide an adequate explanation for board diversity. The study contributes methodologically by demonstrating the design and measurement of board diversity indices, and a three-dimensional stakeholder-relevant CSD index. The findings benefit regulators and corporate executives in better understanding firms’ CSD practices and stakeholders’ expectations.

Keywords: Board of Directors, Corporate Social Disclosure, Diversity, Diversity-In-Boards, Diversity-Of-Boards, Vietnam

JEL Classification: C10

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Trang and Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra and Ma, Shiguang, The Effect of Board Diversity on Earnings Quality: An Empirical Study of Listed Firms in Vietnam (2017). Hoang, T.C., Abeysekera, I. and Ma, S. (2017). The effect of board diversity on earnings quality: An empirical study of listed firms in Vietnam. Australian Accounting Review, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 220-232. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2859891
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,255
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies