Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants of Segment-Level Tax Expense Disclosure

44 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2016 Last revised: 29 Jul 2017

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Logan B. Steele

Oregon State University

Date Written: July 28, 2017

Abstract

In this study, we examine managers’ decision to report segment-level profit on a before-tax or after-tax basis. A consequence of defining segment-level profit on an after-tax basis internally is that segment-level tax expense must be disclosed in the financial statements. Consistent with the management approach underpinning segment reporting rules, we find that firms which appear to be using an after-tax profit measure internally are more likely to report segment-level profit on an after-tax basis. However, this association is only present for operating segments that are defined on a non-geographic basis. In the sample of firms that define operating segments on a geographic basis, proprietary costs considerations, rather than internal reporting, appear to drive managers’ reporting decision. Overall, our results suggest managers use discretion to reduce disclosure quality of segment-level tax information for firms with geographic-based operating segments.

Keywords: Segment disclosure, taxes, after-tax incentives

JEL Classification: H20, H25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gaertner, Fabio B. and Lynch, Dan and Steele, Logan B., The Determinants of Segment-Level Tax Expense Disclosure (July 28, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2860841 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2860841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
H Akamah , O Hope , W Thomas
Tax havens and disclosure aggregation
Journal of International Business Studies Posted: 2017
Crossref
Association for Investment Management and Research (AIMR). 1993. Financial reporting in the 1990s and beyond
The CPA Journal , volume 63 , issue 5 , p. 10 - 11
F B Gaertner
CEO After-Tax Incentives and Corporate Tax Avoidance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 1077 - 1102 Posted: 2014
Crossref
D Givoly , C Hayn , J D&apos;souza
Measurement errors and information content of segment reporting
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 43 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
801
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,513
RANK
70,880
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies