Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lobbying and Audit Regulation in the EU

Accounting in Europe, Vol. 13 (2016), p. 381-403, DOI: 10.1080/17449480.2016.1255343

Posted: 1 Nov 2016 Last revised: 11 Jan 2019

Marius Gros

Niederrhein University of Applied Sciences; Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Daniel Worret

Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Accounting and Auditing

Date Written: October 31, 2016

Abstract

Lobbying activities play an important role in the development of new rules and regulations. However, because most lobbying behavior is not observable, there is still much to learn about, for example, lobbying strategies and their influence on the final regulatory output. We help fill this gap by analyzing comment letters submitted in response to the European Commission (EC) Green Paper on audit policy. We find that consistent with the theory of incentives and the presence of information asymmetries between rule-making bodies and interest groups, the highest participation within the consultation process came from auditors and preparers of financial statements. Additionally, our results suggest that these interest groups exhibit different strategic lobbying behaviors in terms of employing more self-referential arguments than other interest groups — potentially driven by informational advantages and strategic considerations. From an ex post perspective, we provide some evidence that self-referential argumentation strategies are more influential when expressing opposing views, whereas conceptually based argumentation strategies might be more influential when expressing supporting views. We contribute to a more detailed understanding of the role that lobbyists and argumentation strategies played in the recent EU audit policy reform, and we infer that lobbying activities might have led the EU commission to moderate its proposals to obtain interest groups’ support.

Keywords: Lobbying, Audit Regulation, EU Legislation, Standard-Setting, Strategies of Argumentation

JEL Classification: D72, K20, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gros, Marius F. and Worret, Daniel, Lobbying and Audit Regulation in the EU (October 31, 2016). Accounting in Europe, Vol. 13 (2016), p. 381-403, DOI: 10.1080/17449480.2016.1255343, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2861945
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,313
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies