Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and U.S. Firms Over the Last Three Decades

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 4, 2016

44 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2016 Last revised: 9 Nov 2016

Dina El Mahdy, Ph.D., CFE

Morgan State University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 29, 2016

Abstract

This paper provides a review, discussion, and analysis of research on the usefulness of corporate governance codes to U.S. firms based on the theories underlying corporate governance, anecdotal evidence, and practices. It reviews the concurrent corporate governance codes and theories in the U.S. business environment, and then classifies the extant literature on corporate governance and U.S. firms over the last three decades. The paper further discusses the association between corporate governance and organizational outcomes such as firm value, operating performance, and financial reporting quality in order to draw reliable conclusions regarding the overall effectiveness of corporate governance codes for U.S. firms and identifies gaps in prior literature. Based on this classification, the paper provides directions for future research regarding challenges and opportunities in order to maximize the benefits of corporate governance to U.S. firms.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Agency Theory, Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002

JEL Classification: M14, M40, M48, G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

El Mahdy, Dina, Corporate Governance and U.S. Firms Over the Last Three Decades (October 29, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2861206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
Anita Jones
The Term Structure of Interest Rates and Their Effect on Transition Economies
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 434 - 451 Posted: 2006
Walter Aerts , Denis Cormier , Michel Magnan
The association between web-based corporate performance disclosure and financial analyst behaviour under different governance regimes
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 15 , issue 6 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Bipin Ajinkya , Sanjeev Bhojrai , Partha Sengupta
The association between outside directors institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Gordon Arbogast , Barry Thornton
Strange bedfellows: SOX 2002 and corporate profitability
The Business Review , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 61 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,273
RANK
342,507
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies