Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Friends in Need are Friends Indeed: An Analysis of Social Ties between Financial Analysts and Mutual Fund Managers

58 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2016 Last revised: 25 Jan 2018

Zhaoyang Gu

Chinese University of Hong Kong - School of Accountancy

Guangqing Li

China Galaxy Securities

Zengquan Li

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Yong George Yang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: October 31, 2016

Abstract

We examine how hometown, school, and workplace social ties between financial analysts and mutual fund managers affect their business decisions. We show that a fund manager is more likely to hold stocks covered by analysts with whom she is socially connected and that she also makes higher profits from these holdings. The holding returns are higher for more opaque firms. In return, a fund manager tends to cast her star analyst votes in favor of her connected analysts and her fund company is more likely to allocate trading commissions to her connected analysts’ brokerages. Additional tests indicate that analysts more actively acquire information (through conducting corporate site visits) and issue more optimistically biased recommendations for stocks held by fund managers with whom they are connected. Overall, our results illustrate the influence of social networks on the behaviors of analysts and fund managers.

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Zhaoyang and Li, Guangqing and Li, Zengquan and Yang, Yong George, Friends in Need are Friends Indeed: An Analysis of Social Ties between Financial Analysts and Mutual Fund Managers (October 31, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2861731 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2861731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
T Gold , D Guthrie , D Wank
An Introduction to the Study of Guanxi
Social connections in China , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M S Granovetter
Economic action, social structure, and embeddedness
The American Journal of Sociology , volume 91 , p. 481 - 510 Posted: 1985
The impact of social structure on economic outcomes
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 50 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Z Gu , Z Li , Y Yang
Monitors or Predators: The Influence of Institutional Investors on Sell-side Analysts. Forthcoming Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,530
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,978
RANK
28,251
51 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies