Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Future Recurring NAS and Audit Quality: Evidence from an EU Country

Posted: 1 Nov 2016 Last revised: 13 Nov 2016

David Castillo-Merino

Ramon Llull University - IQS School of Management; IQS School of Management - Universitat Ramon Llull; Ramon Llull University

Josep Garcia-Blandon

IQS School of Management (Universitat Ramon Llull)

Monica Martinez-Blasco

IQS School of Management-Universitat Ramon Llull

Date Written: October 30, 2016

Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the relationship between future recurring NAS fees and audit quality in the post-SOX era and in a European institutional setting. Prior research suggests that the current amount of NAS fees paid to incumbent auditors does not have a significant negative effect on audit quality. This lack of significance may be due, at least in part, to the fact that almost all empirical research has been conducted on a current year basis, even though it is widely accepted that the auditor-client engagement is an intertemporal relationship. Thus, it seems clear that considering NAS as the source of expected future quasi-rents (future NAS) when analyzing the threats to auditors’ independence is a better approach than computing the current year fees. In contrast to previous research, we analyze the association between future recurring NAS and audit quality by dividing NAS into their reported components: tax, audit-related and other services. Taken together, our results support the idea that incumbent auditors consider certain types of recurring NAS as a source of future rents, if these services are expected to grow in the subsequent years. This creates an economic bond between clients and auditors that affects auditor independence when NAS and audit services are provided jointly. Therefore, the conclusions of prior research, which has limited itself to addressing the NAS-audit quality relationship on a current-year basis, need to be reexamined.

Keywords: Nonaudit Services, Audit Quality, Auditor Independence, Auditor-Client Relationship, European Union

JEL Classification: M42, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Castillo-Merino, David and Garcia-Blandon, Josep and Martinez-Blasco, Monica, Future Recurring NAS and Audit Quality: Evidence from an EU Country (October 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2861554
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
992
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies