Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance, Efficiency and Risk Taking in Chinese Banking

British Accounting Review, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2016

Yizhe Dong

University of Edinburgh Business School

Claudia Girardone

Essex Business School - University of Essex

Jing-Ming Kuo

University of Birmingham - Birmingham Business School

Date Written: July 1, 2016

Abstract

We employ a hand-collected unique dataset on banks operating in China between 2003 and 2011 to investigate the impact of board governance features (size, composition and functioning) on bank efficiency and risk taking. Our evidence suggests that board characteristics tend to have a greater influence on banks’ profit and cost efficiency than on loan quality. We find that the proportion of female directors on the board appears not only to be linked to higher profit and cost efficiency but also to lower traditional banking risk. Similarly, board independence is associated with higher profit efficiency of banks; while the opposite is found for executive directors and in the presence of dual leadership of the CEO/chairperson. Among the control variables, we found that liquidity negatively affects profit and cost efficiency, while positively affecting risk. Interestingly, we find some evidence of an incremental effect of specific board characteristics on efficiency for banks with more concentrated ownership structures and state-owned institutions; while for banks with CEO performance-related pay schemes the effect on efficiency when significant is usually negative. Our results offer useful insights to policy makers in China charged with the task of improving the governance mechanisms in banking institutions.

Keywords: Board Governance; Bank Efficiency; Asset Quality; Bank Ownership; Performance-Related Compensation; Chinese Banking Sector

Suggested Citation:

Dong, Yizhe and Girardone, Claudia and Kuo, Jing-Ming, Governance, Efficiency and Risk Taking in Chinese Banking (July 1, 2016). British Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2863359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2863359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
128 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 50 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Renée B. Adams , Hamid Mehran
Is Corporate Governance Different for Bank Holding Companies?
Pages: 40 Posted: 1 May 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Renée B. Adams , Hamid Mehran
Corporate Performance, Board Structure, and Their Determinants in the Banking Industry
FRB of New York Staff Report No. 330 Pages: 43 Posted: 25 Jun 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Adams , H Mehran
Bank board structure and performance: Evidence for large bank holding companies
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 21 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Muhammad Sajjad Hussain , Muhammad Muhaizam Bin Musa , Abdelnaser Omran
The Impact of Private Ownership Structure on Risk Taking by Pakistani Banks: An Empirical Study
Pakistan Journal of Humanities and Social Sciences July – September 2018, Volume 6, No. 3, Pages 325 – 337, · 13 Pages · Posted: 8 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 150
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thi Hong Hahn Nguyen , Collins G. Ntim , John Malagila
Women on Corporate Boards and Corporate Financial and Non-financial Performance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda
Nguyen, T.H.H., Ntim, C.G., & Malagila, J. (2020). ‘Women on corporate boards and corporate financial and non-financial performance: A systematic literature review and future research agenda’, International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., · 60 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 482
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Trung Hoang , Cesario Mateus
Board Characteristics and Corporate Governance: A Historical Review of The Banking Industry
43 Pages · Posted: 12 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 171
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Naveed Khan , Hassan Zada , Wing-Keung Wong , Shakeel Ahmed
Does Internal Corporate Governance Mechanism Affect Financial Stability and Risk-Weighted Capital of Banks? Empirical Evidence from Pakistan
HELIYON-D-23-15134 · 21 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 153
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,360
RANK
432,018
7 Citations
128 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies