Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Study of Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices: Old Economy Versus New Economy Firms

The Great Lakes Herald, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 1-25, 2016

25 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2016

Pankaj M. Madhani

Former Dean (Academics) & Professor

Date Written: September 2016

Abstract

This research focuses on nature of industry and its impact on corporate governance and disclosure practices of firms. Nature of industry divides firms into two broad categories: old economy and new economy firms. Accordingly, this research studies the corporate governance and disclosure practices of firms listed in Indian stock market representing different sectors. The study has taken five sectors into consideration – Power, Oil & Gas, and Metal, along with Health Care and IT. These sectors are segregated into old economy (high capital intensity) and new economy (low capital intensity) sectors depending on nature of industry. This study aims to establish a relationship, if any, between capital intensity of firms and their corporate governance practices in Indian context. Research concludes that there is no difference between old economy firms and new economy firms with respect to corporate governance and disclosure practices. After thorough empirical research, the paper explains why Indian scenario is different from knowledge economy such as United States.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Disclosure, Capital Intensity, Intangible Assets, Old Economy, New Economy

Suggested Citation:

Madhani, Pankaj M., Study of Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices: Old Economy Versus New Economy Firms (September 2016). The Great Lakes Herald, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 1-25, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2864209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
Details about current employment/position of directors provided? 2. Details about previous employment/positions provided?
When each of the directors joined the board?
Details about whether the chairman is executive or non-executive?
Detail about the chairman (other than name and executive status)? 6. Details about the role of the board of directors in the company?
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,546
RANK
492,934
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies