Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compensating Executives Based on Performance

International Journal of Business Administration, Vol. 7, No. 6, pp. 1-9, 2016

9 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2016 Last revised: 13 Nov 2016

Mohammed R Ahmed

Webster University - Business

Date Written: November 2, 2016

Abstract

The question of fair executive compensation could be resolved if we develop a framework and measures to determine whether executives are compensated fairly by firms. Executive compensation is a business decision, and it should be based on business performance. This paper presents tools for investors and analysts for analyzing executive compensation, and provides for the board of directors a framework for developing a fair executive compensation policy. The model for executive compensation includes four variables: culture, governance, disclosure, and oversight, for creating an environment for the board of directors to evaluate and formulate a fair compensation policy. The model includes two measures: (1) an executive compensation ratio — a measure for comparing executive compensation to the value created for the firm during a period of time and (2) a comparative compensation ratio — a measure for comparing executive compensation with employee compensation. The researcher recommends that the management share these measures with the public in both quarterly and annual reports.

Keywords: Execuitive Compensation, Corporate Governence, Compensation Ratios

JEL Classification: M12, G30

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Mohammed R, Compensating Executives Based on Performance (November 2, 2016). International Journal of Business Administration, Vol. 7, No. 6, pp. 1-9, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2864068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Mohammed R Ahmed , Betty E Ahmed
Compensating executives based on performance is fair compensating strategy
International Conference on Business Posted: 2014-05
Mohammed Ahmed , R
Performance-based corporate compensation model for executive compensation
International Conference for Academic Disciplines Posted: 2010-03
P Angel , V Fumás
The compensation of Spanish executives: A test of a managerial talent allocation model
International Journal of Industrial Organization , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 511 - 531 Posted: 1997
R Antle , A Smith
An empirical investigation of the relative performance evaluation of corporate executives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
816
RANK
631,426
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies