Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting As a Factor of Corporate Crime

7th International Scientific Conference, "Contemporary Trends in Social Control of Crime", Ohrid, Macedonia, 2016

12 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2016

Jelena Slovic

FINODIT

Snezana Mojsoska

St. Clement of Ohrid University of Bitola - Faculty of Security

Igor Pejovic

Higher School of Economic, Belgrade

Date Written: January 31, 2016

Abstract

Corporate crime is a phenomenon that marked the XX century. The first half was marked with two major world economic crises (The Great Depression) and the second with an increasing number of massive corporate scandals.

Corporate crime stems from business activities and although there were financial scandals in previous centuries, corporate crime was in full swing in the last two decades. Modern business has significantly dematerialized and transformed into virtual reality, which on one hand represents a significant breakthrough, but on the other hand it opens a wide space and offers modalities for perpetrating crimes in the field of finance. Nevertheless, regardless of the conditions of modern business, the basic reason for corporate crime derives from human greed, namely, the wish to acquire resources which are limited by nature. What is significant is the fact that this type of fraud is spreading, and as a consequence there has emerged a need to study this concept from the scientific and professional perspectives, so as to find a solution and enable corporate crime prevention.

This paper will analyze corporate crime, errors, victims and financial statements as possible key points in meaning corporate crime. So, to point the corporate crime we also point out need of knowledge of accounting and rules for making financial statements, sufficient experience in coping with corporate crime incidents, the protection of interests in business is still not perfectly clear, starting from the fact that it is hard for creditors to protect their interest and collect their receivables to the fact that the interest of a certain party prevails over the common interest, management or owners, often establish a big number of small companies, directly or indirectly connected and thus break their business into pieces with an aim to avoid the audit of financial reports and overall fraudulent financial statements cause substantial damage to economy. Further will be offered the essentials that fraud examiners who investigate should be good and experienced experts in this field who will recognize the symptoms of modified financial statements.

Keywords: corporate crime, fraud, victims, financial statement, mistakes

JEL Classification: K13, M41

Suggested Citation:

Slovic, Jelena and Mojsoska, Snezana and Pejovic, Igor Milan, Financial Reporting As a Factor of Corporate Crime (January 31, 2016). 7th International Scientific Conference, "Contemporary Trends in Social Control of Crime", Ohrid, Macedonia, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2864360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
W S Albrecht , C Albrecht
Fraud Examination and Prevention Posted: 2003
W S Albrecht
Posted: 1995
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners -2014 Report to the Nation on Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2014
Crossref
G J Bologna , R J Lindquist , J Wells
The Accountant is Handbook of Fraud & Commercial Crime Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,732
RANK
448,944
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies