Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Narrative Disclosure Readability on Bond Ratings and the Cost of Debt Capital

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-82

45 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2016 Last revised: 22 Nov 2016

Samuel B. Bonsall

Pennsylvania State University - Department of Accounting

Brian P. Miller

University of Florida - Warrington College of Business Administration

Date Written: October 21, 2016

Abstract

Prior research on the determinants of credit ratings has focused primarily on rating agencies’ use of quantitative accounting information, but the impact of financial disclosures, particularly textual attributes, on the bond rating process has gone relatively unexplored. This study examines the potential impact of the financial disclosure narrative on various bond market outcomes. We find that less readable financial disclosures are associated with less favorable ratings (higher default risk), greater bond rating agency disagreement, and a higher cost of debt capital. To address the potential confound that our results may be influenced by some underlying firm characteristic (e.g., firm complexity), we take advantage of a regulatory intervention provided by the 1998 Plain English Mandate requiring a subset of firms to exogenously improve the readability of their filings. Using a difference-in-differences design, we find that the firms required to improve the readability of their filings experience more favorable ratings (lower default risk), lower bond rating disagreement, and lower cost of debt capital. Collectively, our evidence suggests that textual financial disclosure attributes appear to not only influence bond market intermediaries’ opinions, but also firms’ cost of debt capital.

Keywords: Readability, Plain English, Reporting Complexity, Rating Agencies, Disagreement, Cost of Debt Capital

JEL Classification: G24, M40, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bonsall, Samuel B. and Miller, Brian P., The Impact of Narrative Disclosure Readability on Bond Ratings and the Cost of Debt Capital (October 21, 2016). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 16-82, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2865761 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2865761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Brian K. Akins
Financial Reporting Quality and Uncertainty About Credit Risk Among the Credit Ratings Agencies
Pages: 45 Posted: 8 Jan 2014 Last revised: 30 Sep 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R K Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Ball , R Bushman , F Vasvari
The debt-contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
Crossref
L S Bamber
Unexpected earnings, firm size, and trading volume around quarterly earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 62 , p. 510 - 532 Posted: 1987-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,251
RANK
44,539
118 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies