Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Duality, Agency Costs, and Internal Capital Allocation Efficiency

Forthcoming, British Journal of Management

38 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2016 Last revised: 28 Nov 2017

Nihat Aktas

WHU - Otto Beisheim School of Management

Panayiotis C. Andreou

Cyprus University of Technology

Isabella Karasamani

University of Central Lancashire; University of Durham

Dennis Philip

Durham University Business School

Date Written: November 6, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the impact of CEO duality on firms’ internal capital allocation efficiency. We observe that when the CEO is also chair of the board, diversified firms make inefficient investments, as they allocate more capital to business segments with relatively low growth opportunities over segments with high growth opportunities. The adverse impact of CEO duality on investment efficiency prevails only among firms that face high agency problems, as captured by high free cash flows, staggered board structure and low board independence. Depending on the severity of the agency problem, CEO duality is associated with a decrease in industry-adjusted investment in high growth segments of 1% to 2.1% over the following year, relative to those in low growth segments. However, CEOs’ equity-based compensation curbs the negative effect of CEO duality on internal capital allocation efficiency. Overall, the findings of this study offer strong support for the agency theory and postulate the internal capital allocation policy as an important channel through which CEO duality lowers firm value in diversified firms.

Keywords: CEO duality; Internal capital allocation; Investment efficiency; Agency costs; Board structure; Equity-based compensation

JEL Classification: G38; G34; M48

Suggested Citation:

Aktas, Nihat and Andreou, Panayiotis C. and Karasamani, Isabella and Philip, Dennis, CEO Duality, Agency Costs, and Internal Capital Allocation Efficiency (November 6, 2016). Forthcoming, British Journal of Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2865169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2865169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
M Adelino , S Ma , Robinson , D
Firm age, investment opportunities, and job creation
Journal of Finance , volume 72 , p. 999 - 1038 Posted: 2017
Crossref
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
Why do managers diversify their firms? Agency reconsidered
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 71 - 118 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , I Filatotchev , H Gospel , Jackson , G
Contingencies, complementarities, and costs in corporate governance models
Organization Science , volume 19 , p. 475 - 492 Posted: 2008
S Ahn , D J Denis
Internal capital markets and investment policy: evidence from corporate spinoffs
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 71 , p. 489 - 516 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Panayiotis C. Andreou , Isabella Karasamani , Christodoulos Louca , Daphna Ehrlich
The Impact of Managerial Ability on Crisis-Period Corporate Investment
Journal of Business Research, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2015 · Last revised: 31 May 2017 · Downloads: 654
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Isabel‐María García‐Sánchez , Jennifer Martínez‐Ferrero
Chief executive officer ability, corporate social responsibility, and financial performance: The moderating role of the environment
Business Strategy and the Environment Posted: 2018
Crossref
Isabel-María García-Sánchez , Jennifer Martínez-Ferrero , María-Antonia Garcia-Benau
Integrated reporting: The mediating role of the board of directors and investor protection on managerial discretion in munificent environments
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 29 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Jiang Wei , Yan Zuo
The Certification Effect of R&D Subsidies from the Central and Local Governments: Evidence from China
R&D Management, Vol. 48, Issue 5, pp. 615-626, 2018 · 12 Pages · Posted: 25 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 6 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
615
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,142
RANK
99,960
5 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies