Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Friendly Boards Have an Influence on Corporate Financing Policy? Evidence from French-Listed Firms

27 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2016

Cedric Van Appelghem

Université Paris II - Panthéon-Assas

Véronique Blum

University of Grenoble

Aurelie Sannajust

University of Saint Etienne

Samir Trabelsi

Brock University - Accounting

Date Written: october 25, 2016

Abstract

The paper empirically investigates the association between friendly boards and corporate financing policy. A friendly board can be defined as a board on which some directors are socially tied to the CEO. In the paper, we consider that a director is socially tied to the CEO when he belongs to the same alumni networks as the CEO. We use a unique, hand-collected dataset. It is related to 78 French-listed firms belonging to the SBF 120 index between 2007 and 2011. Our results show that board friendliness toward the CEO increases firm’s leverage. Further tests show that the initial relationship depends on ownership concentration. Taken together, our results suggest that it is necessary for researchers to have a contingent vision of the effects of board composition on corporate governance.

Keywords: CEO Social Ties, Leverage, Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Contingencies, Agency Theory, Resource Dependence Theory

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Van Appelghem, Cedric and Blum, Véronique and Sannajust, Aurelie and Trabelsi, Samir, Do Friendly Boards Have an Influence on Corporate Financing Policy? Evidence from French-Listed Firms (october 25, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2866572 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2866572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,395
RANK
713,531
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies