Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Spillover Effects of Management Overconfidence on Analyst Forecasts

Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance 12 (2016): 79-92. DOI: 10.1016/j.jbef.2016.10.004

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2867634

Posted: 15 Nov 2016

Lisa A. Kramer

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Chi Liao

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Date Written: October 1, 2016

Abstract

Overconfident CEOs are known to overestimate their ability to generate returns, overpay for target firms, and take excessive risks. We find a CEO’s overconfidence can also indirectly affect other market participants, specifically analysts who issue earnings forecasts. First, firms with overconfident CEOs are more likely to have analysts issue earnings forecasts that are optimistic relative to actual earnings; that is, the earnings forecasts more frequently exceed the actual realized earnings than the reverse. Second, firms with overconfident CEOs tend to have less dispersed analyst earnings forecasts. And third, smaller analyst forecast errors are associated with firms that have overconfident CEOs. These findings demonstrate the importance of CEOs’ behavioral characteristics in shaping the environment in which analysts and other market participants make important financial decisions, in some cases improving the information environment.

Keywords: Analyst Forecasts, Manager Overconfidence, Earnings Forecasts, Market Efficiency

JEL Classification: G1, G14, G29, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kramer, Lisa A. and Liao, Chi, The Spillover Effects of Management Overconfidence on Analyst Forecasts (October 1, 2016). Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Finance 12 (2016): 79-92. DOI: 10.1016/j.jbef.2016.10.004, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2867634, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2867634
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,484
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies