Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuing Talent: Do CEOs’ Ability and Discretion Unambiguously Increase Firm Performance

Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2016 Last revised: 16 Nov 2016

Kwok Tong Samuel Cheung

Deakin University

Dharmendra Naidu

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Farshid Navissi

Monash University

Kumari Ranjeeni

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: November 10, 2016

Abstract

This study investigates how the association between more able managers and firm performance, documented in prior research, is affected by the joint effect of managerial discretion and monitoring quality. We find that higher levels of managerial discretion afford more able managers to further improve firm outcomes only when such discretion is monitored closely to curb more able managers’ rent seeking incentives. Our results are robust to a battery of additional and sensitivity analyses that we perform.

Keywords: Firm performance, CEO ability, Discretion, Business strategy, Monitoring

JEL Classification: G12, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Cheung, Kwok Tong Samuel and Naidu, Dharmendra and Navissi, Farshid and Ranjeeni, Kumari, Valuing Talent: Do CEOs’ Ability and Discretion Unambiguously Increase Firm Performance (November 10, 2016). Journal of Corporate Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2867631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
Crossref
V Agarwal , R Taffler , M Brown
Is management quality value relevant
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 38 , p. 1184 - 1208 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y Amihud , Lev , B
Risk reduction as a managerial motive for conglomerate mergers
Bell Journal of Economics , volume 12 , p. 605 - 617 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,388
RANK
407,330
10 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies