Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Corporate Income Taxes on Investment Location: Evidence from Corporate Headquarters Relocations

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2017-59

64 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2016 Last revised: 28 Sep 2020

Travis Chow

The University of Hong Kong

Sterling Huang

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Kenneth J. Klassen

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Jeffrey Ng

The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: September 2020

Abstract

This study examines the effects of jurisdictions’ corporate taxes and other policies on firms’ headquarters (HQ) location decisions. Using changes in state corporate income tax rates across time and states as the setting, we find that a one-percentage-point increase in the HQ state corporate income tax rate increases the likelihood of firms relocating their HQ out of the state by 16.8%, and an equivalent decrease in the HQ state rate decreases the likelihood of HQ relocations by 9.1%. Exploiting the unique tax policy features within the state apportionment system lends strong support to the interpretation that taxation drives this effect. Our analyses also demonstrate that state income tax features affect the destination of the HQ move. We contribute to the literature on corporate decision-making by showing how state income taxation affects a real corporate decision that has significant economic consequences for the company and the state.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Rate; Headquarters Relocation; State Apportionment System

JEL Classification: D22;H25;H73

Suggested Citation:

Chow, Travis and Huang, Sterling and Klassen, Kenneth and Ng, Jeffrey, The Influence of Corporate Income Taxes on Investment Location: Evidence from Corporate Headquarters Relocations (September 2020). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2017-59, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2867298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2867298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
565
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,158
RANK
111,454
10 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies