Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compensation Duration, Shareholder Governance, and Managerial Short-Termism

47 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2016 Last revised: 14 Dec 2017

Ronghuo Zheng

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Date Written: November 27, 2017

Abstract

In this paper, I investigate the interaction between the duration of executive compensation and shareholder governance. I show that short-term compensation can elicit shareholder intervention and thus enhance firm value. The central mechanism is that the use of short-term incentives enables informed incumbent shareholders to commit to using their private information to intervene (voice) instead of selling their shares (exit). Without a commitment to voice, incumbent shareholders might find, ex post, that exit is more appealing than voice if they privately observe that a firm's type is bad. Short-term incentives encourage a good firm to take actions that reveal its type early on, which reduces the information advantage of the incumbent shareholders and their ability to profit from exit. Effectively, short-term compensation serves as a commitment device for value-enhancing intervention.

Keywords: Executive Compensation, Corporate Governance, Shareholder Engagement

JEL Classification: G34, M12, M40

Suggested Citation:

Zheng, Ronghuo, Compensation Duration, Shareholder Governance, and Managerial Short-Termism (November 27, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2867124 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2867124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Jeremy C Stein
Takeover threats and managerial myopia
Journal of Political Economy , volume 96 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Rimmer Steve , Sanandres Aaron
How US private equity compensates management through the investment lifecycle Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,713
RANK
333,065
1 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies