Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings management: Who do managers consider and what is the relative importance of ethics?

59 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2016 Last revised: 24 Aug 2022

Paul Coram

University of Adelaide - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

James R. Frederickson

Melbourne Business School

Matt Pinnuck

University of Melbourne - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 18, 2022

Abstract

Using responses from Australian CFOs and CEOs to a case-based survey and interviews, we provide insights into managers’ earnings management (EM) decisions. Ethics has the greatest explanatory power for our participants’ EM assessments. Ethical concerns about EM deter EM, but surprisingly, ethical concerns about not managing earnings and missing market expectations motivate EM. The primary economic motivation for EM is shielding current shareholders from the short-term costs of missing market expectations. We find considerable heterogeneity regarding the extent to which CFOs and CEOs believe EM is lying. Finally, CFOs and CEOs believe that each are significantly involved in initiating EM.


Keywords: earnings management; ethics; real earnings management

JEL Classification: M40;M41;M48

Suggested Citation:

Coram, Paul J. and Frederickson, James R. and Pinnuck, Matthew, Earnings management: Who do managers consider and what is the relative importance of ethics? (August 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2868350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2868350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
1 Citations
Jeremiah W. Bentley , Matthew J. Bloomfield , Robert J. Bloomfield , Tamara A. Lambert
DRIVERS OF PUBLIC OPINION ON THE ACCEPTABILITY OF DISTORTING PERFORMANCE MEASURES
50 Pages · Posted: 17 Aug 2016 · Last revised: 12 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 870
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,496
RANK
162,978
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies