Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Social Ties between External Auditors and Audit Committee Members Affect Audit Quality?

53 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2016 Last revised: 14 Nov 2016

Xianjie He

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

Jeffrey Pittman

Memorial University ; Virginia Tech

Oliver M. Rui

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS); affiliation not provided to SSRN

Donghui Wu

The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - CUHK Business School

Date Written: November 11, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether social ties between engagement auditors and audit committee members shape audit outcomes. Although these social ties can facilitate information transfer and help auditors alleviate management pressure to waive correction of detected misstatements, cozy interpersonal relations can undermine auditors’ monitoring of the financial reporting process. We measure social ties by alma mater connections, professor-student bonding, and employment affiliation and audit quality by the propensity to render modified audit opinions, financial reporting irregularities, and firm valuation. Our evidence implies that social ties between engagement auditors and audit committee members impair audit quality. In additional results consistent with expectations, we generally find that this relation is concentrated where social ties are more salient, or firm governance is relatively poor and agency conflicts are more severe. Implying reciprocity stemming from social networks, we also report some suggestive evidence that audit fees are higher in the presence of social ties between an engagement auditor and the audit committee. Collectively, our analysis lends support to the narrative that the negative implications -- namely, worse audit quality and higher audit fees -- of these social ties may outweigh the benefits.

Keywords: Social ties; External auditors; Audit committee

JEL Classification: A14; G30; M42

Suggested Citation:

He, Xianjie and Pittman, Jeffrey A. and Rui, Oliver M. and Rui, Oliver M. and Wu, Donghui, Do Social Ties between External Auditors and Audit Committee Members Affect Audit Quality? (November 11, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2868205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2868205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,456
RANK
29,013
18 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies