Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Cash Holdings in Multinational Corporation’s Foreign Subsidiaries: U.S. Subsidiaries in China

Forthcoming in Corporate Governance: An International Review

40 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2016

Christof Beuselinck

Catholic University of Lille - IESEG School of Management

Yan Du

EDHEC Business School

Date Written: November 11, 2016

Abstract

Manuscript Type: Empirical

Research Question/Issue: We examine determinants of cash holdings in Chinese subsidiaries of U.S. multinational corporations (MNCs), a setting where growth opportunities make cash holdings desirable for investment opportunities but also vulnerable to potential expropriation because of poor investor protection.

Research Findings/Insights: We show that headquarters accumulate larger cash holdings in foreign subsidiaries with locally registered patents and in foreign subsidiaries operating in the same industry as corporate headquarters. Further, foreign cash holdings are higher when these are safeguarded by a subsidiary board. Moreover, the effect of shared industry on subsidiary cash holdings is larger when a board is installed in the subsidiary. Finally, the positive relation between a subsidiary’s capability to innovate and to transfer knowledge and its level of cash holdings is stronger when the subsidiary is led by U.S. expatriate CEOs.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: Our results indicate that MNCs accumulate cash in foreign subsidiaries with innovation and knowledge transfer capabilities. Furthermore, and in line with agency theory, we find that MNCs safeguard foreign cash via the installment of subsidiary boards and expatriate CEOs. These findings suggest that the installment of monitoring devices are crucial in reducing the potential expropriation risk of foreign cash holdings.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: Our study highlights the importance of considering foreign subsidiaries’ positions in innovation and in knowledge transfer when MNCs make decisions on the levels of overseas cash holdings. It offers insights regarding the importance of subsidiary boards and expatriate CEOs in monitoring and controlling foreign subsidiaries.

Suggested Citation:

Beuselinck, Christof and Du, Yan, Determinants of Cash Holdings in Multinational Corporation’s Foreign Subsidiaries: U.S. Subsidiaries in China (November 11, 2016). Forthcoming in Corporate Governance: An International Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2868139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance worldwide: What is the trigger? Organization Studies , volume 25 , p. 417 - 446 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 17 , p. 376 - 387 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 100 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Aggarwal , N A Kyaw
Internal capital networks as a source of MNC competitive advantage: Evidence from foreign subsidiary capital structure decisions
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 409 - 439 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,433
RANK
653,768
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies