Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Returnee Talent and Corporate Investment: Evidence from China

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2016

Yunhao Dai

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Dongmin Kong

School of Economics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Shasha Liu

School of Management, Jinan University

Date Written: November 14, 2016

Abstract

We manually collected a dataset comprising the overseas experiences of management teams of listed Chinese firms and investigated the effects of returnee talent on firm investment efficiency (InvEff). The results show that 1) returnees improve InvEff significantly, especially for firms that experience overinvestment; 2) the central-government-controlled state-owned enterprises (SOEs) benefit the most from overseas returnees; and 3) foreign experience in countries with effective governance and low corruption levels have significantly marginal effects on the improvement in InvEff. This study highlights a new channel of international knowledge spillover and practically guides the introduction of talent policy in emerging markets.

Keywords: Human Capital; Returnee Talent; Investment Efficiency; China

JEL Classification: G31; G32; O15

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Yunhao and Kong, Dongmin and Liu, Shasha, Returnee Talent and Corporate Investment: Evidence from China (November 14, 2016). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2872791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,927
RANK
459,150
4 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies