Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Philanthropic Giving, Market-Based Performance and Institutional Ownership: Evidence from an Emerging Economy

British Accounting Review, 49(4): 429-444

43 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2017 Last revised: 4 Jan 2021

Sudipta Bose

Discipline of Accounting and Finance, Newcastle Business School, The University of Newcastle, Australia

Jyotirmoy Podder

Torrens University Australia

Kumar Krishna Biswas

Australian Institute of Business - Department of Management and Human Resources

Date Written: November 7, 2016

Abstract

This paper investigates the association of philanthropic giving with market-based performance and institutional ownership using data from banks in Bangladesh from 2007– 2013. Our findings suggest that banks with a higher level of philanthropic giving achieve better performance, with a positive association also found between philanthropic giving and institutional ownership. This implies that institutional owners invest in banks that contribute more to philanthropic activities. These findings should be of interest to managers, regulators and policy makers in countries that share similar financial and socio-economic systems.

Keywords: Philanthropic Giving; Corporate Social Responsibility; Firm Performance; Institutional Shareholders; Emerging Economy

JEL Classification: G38; M14; M40; M41

Suggested Citation:

Bose, Sudipta and Podder, Jyotirmoy and Biswas, Kumar Krishna, Philanthropic Giving, Market-Based Performance and Institutional Ownership: Evidence from an Emerging Economy (November 7, 2016). British Accounting Review, 49(4): 429-444 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2872092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
M Adams , P Hardwick
An analysis of corporate donations: United Kingdom evidence
Journal of Management Studies , volume 35 , issue 5 , p. 641 - 654 Posted: 1998
Crossref
V Agarwal , R Taffler
Comparing the performance of market-based and accounting-based bankruptcy prediction models
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 32 , issue 8 , p. 1541 - 1551 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in corporate social responsibility: a multilevel theory of social change in organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S A Al-Tuwaijri , T E Christensen , K E Hughes
The relations among environmental disclosure, environmental performance, and economic performance: a simultaneous equations approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 5-6 , p. 447 - 471 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,412
RANK
672,649
12 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies