Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting of CSR Activities in India: Are We Still at a Nascent Stage Even after the Legal Mandate?

Corporate Social Responsibility in India: Cases and Development after the Legal Mandate, Springer, Verlag, Switzerland (ISBN- 978-3-319-41780-6, eBook ISBN 978-3-319-41781-3), 2016

Posted: 30 Nov 2016

Sumona Ghosh

St Xavier's College

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

In this paper we have attempted to study Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting made by select companies in their official websites, Sustainability Reports and Annual Reports for a period of 5 financial years (FY) from 2009–2010 to 2013–2014 i.e. during the pre and mandate onset period, by conducting an empirical and analytical study. Data was then generated from such an analysis using longitudinal Qualitative Document Analysis to show trends as well as absolute CSR levels of Indian companies for the aforesaid 5 year period. “Number of sentences” was used as a unit of measurement to calculate the extent of information reported. It was noted that companies were more prone towards reporting of CSR activities in their official websites than Annual Reports. Infact, the reporting of CSR information was not satisfactory in case of Annual Reports both in the pre and mandate onset period. Besides, the important sections of the Annual Reports like “Chairman/CEO message,” “Managing Director’s message” and “Letter to the Shareholders,” still do not lay emphasis on reporting of CSR as compared to financial information. However, although, there was an increase in the proportion of companies publishing Sustainability Reports from 2009–2010 to 2013–2014, but still there were companies without Sustainability Reports too. The average sentences reported in the Sustainability Reports was observed to be highly inconsistent both in the pre and mandate onset period.

Keywords: CSR Reporting, Longitudinal Qualitative Document Analysis, Companies Act 2013, Pre and Mandate Onset Period

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Ghosh, Sumona, Reporting of CSR Activities in India: Are We Still at a Nascent Stage Even after the Legal Mandate? (August 1, 2016). Corporate Social Responsibility in India: Cases and Development after the Legal Mandate, Springer, Verlag, Switzerland (ISBN- 978-3-319-41780-6, eBook ISBN 978-3-319-41781-3), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2873682
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies