Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capture and Competition

Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR-16-13

47 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2016

Sudarshan Jayaraman

Simon Business School, University of Rochester; University of Rochester - Simon Business School

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Karthik Ramanna

University of Oxford - Blavatnik School of Government

Date Written: November 21, 2016

Abstract

The lobbying literature provides evidence of firms shaping their regulatory context, consistent with corporate rent-seeking. We propose that such rent-seeking, where it exists, is unlikely to enrich shareholders at the expense of customers when firms operate in competitive product markets. We test this proposition through an assessment of the dissipation of the cash benefits accrued from corporate tax inversions. We find lower accounting and stock-market returns to shareholders of inverting firms in competitive industries (relative to those in concentrated industries). Further, inverting firms in competitive industries are more likely to improve liquidity and invest in R&D relative to those in concentrated industries. The evidence suggests that in competitive industries lobbying “rents” accrue to customers over shareholders.

Keywords: Regulatory Capture, Product Market Competition, Inversions

JEL Classification: D01, D22, H26, I18

Suggested Citation:

Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Kothari, S.P. and Ramanna, Karthik, Capture and Competition (November 21, 2016). Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR-16-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2874384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2874384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Ashiq Ali , Sandy Klasa , Eric Yeung
The Limitations of Industry Concentration Measures Constructed with Compustat Data: Implications for Finance Research
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 10 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2009
David Besanko , David Dranove , Mark Shanley , Scott Schaefer
Economics of Strategy , volume 4 Posted: 2009
Jennifer Blouin , Linda Krull
Bringing It Home: A Study of the Incentives Surrounding the Repatriation of Foreign Earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 1027 - 1059 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Dennis W Carlton , J F Perloff
Modern Industrial Economics Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,766
RANK
239,255
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies