Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Earnings Announcements on a Firm's Information Environment

45 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2016 Last revised: 22 Feb 2025

Mark T Bradshaw

Boston College

Marlene Plumlee

University of Utah - School of Accounting

Benjamin C. Whipple

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: April 11, 2018

Abstract

Research suggests that earnings announcements reduce information asymmetry and level the playing field among investors. However, some studies find the opposite, with results indicating that the proportion of common information (i.e., consensus) decreases after earnings announcements. We revisit the question of how earnings announcements affect the information environment and provide new evidence that reconciles these seemingly contradictory findings. First, we show that earnings announcements decrease total forecast error by reducing both common forecast error and private forecast error (i.e., forecast dispersion). Therefore, although earnings announcements can decrease consensus, they are beneficial to the information environment because they decrease both common and private error. Second, we highlight the importance of a firm’s pre-existing consensus in understanding how earnings announcements affect the information environment. Specifically, we find that earnings announcements increase, as opposed to decrease, consensus when the pre-existing level of consensus is low. However, with higher levels of pre-existing consensus, this effect becomes attenuated and eventually negative. Third, we find that voluntary disclosures in earnings announcements can also affect consensus, with management forecasts increasing consensus and non-GAAP earnings decreasing consensus. Finally, we decompose earnings into revenues and expenses and find that earnings announcements improve information about revenue more than for expenses. Overall, we reconcile the existing literature by demonstrating that earnings announcements level the informational playing field, even if consensus declines around such announcements, and we provide new evidence about the effects of voluntary disclosures on consensus.

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Bradshaw, Mark T and Plumlee, Marlene A. and Whipple, Benjamin C. and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, The Impact of Earnings Announcements on a Firm's Information Environment (April 11, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2875839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2875839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Dispersion of financial analysts' earnings forecasts and the (option model) implied standard deviations of stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 40 , issue 5 , p. 1353 - 1365 Posted: 1985
S Baginski , E Conrad , J Hassell
The effects of management forecast precision on equity pricing and on the assessment of earnings uncertainty
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 4 , p. 913 - 927 Posted: 1993
O Barron , D Byard , O Kim
Changes in analysts' information around earnings announcements
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 821 - 846 Posted: 2002
O Barron , D Byard , Y Yu
Earnings surprises that motivate analysts to reduce average forecast error
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 2 , p. 303 - 325 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
528
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,854
RANK
121,660
4 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies