Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of Corporate Governance Disclosure in Ghanaian and Nigerian Banks

International Journal of Innovation and Economic Development, Volume 3, Issue 1, April 2017, Pages 50-71

33 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2016 Last revised: 14 May 2017

Araniyar Isukul

Rivers State University

John Jideofo Chizea

Baze University

Date Written: November 24, 2016

Abstract

Corporate governance disclosure has become the buzz word for countries in developing economies, with the spate of corporate governance failures and the need to prevent a continuation of this trend. There has been the call for developing countries to enhance and improve on corporate governance disclosure practices. This research examines corporate governance disclosure in Ghanaian and Nigerian Banks using the un-weighted disclosure index technique. This research analyses corporate governance disclosure practices in the annual reports of 10 listed banks in Ghanaian and Nigerian banks in the year 2014. The findings of the research reveal that Ghanaian and Nigerian banks comply with several codes and principles of corporate governance disclosure: with Ghanaian banks having a lower level of disclosure than their Nigerian counterparts. On closer inspection, both Ghanaian and Nigerian banks have poor scores in voluntary corporate governance disclosure. Ghanaian banks tend to be worse off, as the level of variation in levels of corporate governance disclosure is high than Nigerian banks. In comparison, Nigerian banks on the average tend to have better voluntary disclosure practices than Ghanaian banks.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Disclosure, Agency Theory, Stakeholder Theory, Coporate Social Responsibility, Developing Countries

Suggested Citation:

Isukul, Araniyar and Chizea, John Jideofo, An Evaluation of Corporate Governance Disclosure in Ghanaian and Nigerian Banks (November 24, 2016). International Journal of Innovation and Economic Development, Volume 3, Issue 1, April 2017, Pages 50-71, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2875591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
N Abdelkarim , Y A Shahin , Arqawi , B M
Investors perception of information disclosed in financial report of Palestine security listed exchange companies
Accounting and Taxation , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 62 Posted: 2009
Nida Abdioglu , Vassiliki C. Bamiatzi , S. Tamer Cavusgil , Arif Khurshed , Konstantinos Stathopoulos
Information Asymmetry, Disclosure and Foreign Institutional Investment: An Empirical Investigation of the Impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Leeds University Business School Working Paper No. 15-06 Pages: 54 Posted: 8 Apr 2015 Last revised: 28 Nov 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Abor , C K Adjasi
Corporate governance and the small and medium enterprises sector: theory and implications
Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 122 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Adegbite
Good corporate governance in Nigeria: Antecedents, propositions and peculiarities
International Business Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 319 - 330 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,302
RANK
484,103
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies