Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of Integrated Reporting on the Firm's Value: Evidence from Voluntary Adopters of the IIRC's Framework

37 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2016

Carlos Martinez

Independent

Date Written: November 26, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: The aim of the current paper is to evaluate potential external benefits related to capital markets of the Integrated Reporting Framework on a sample of international voluntary adopters. Design/methodology/approach: Difference-in-difference (DiD) estimators were used to test the hypotheses. A data sample of ‘treated’ and ‘control’ firms was constructed using Propensity Score Matching (PSM). The ‘treated’ data sample is comprised exclusively of firms included in the IIRC’s database as of September 2016.

Findings: The results indicate Integrated Reporting is positively associated with market value and expected future cash flows, but not with bid-ask spread or implicit cost of capital. The results suggest that Integrated Reporting enhanced investor’s perception of the firm’s future cash flows but did not improved the firm’s information environment. Additional tests on the parallel assumption, level of Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) disclosures, percentage of institutional investors, analyst following, and forecast error confirm this conclusion. The results coincide with the findings of Barth et al. (2016), differing only on bid-ask spread. A possible explanation for the discrepancy is provided.

Research implications/limitations: The results of the paper could help companies (stock exchanges) in their decision of adopting (endorsing) the Framework. However, the researcher acknowledges a small sample size and the fact that most of the observations are big multinational firms potentially reduces the generalizability of the results.

Originality/value: The study complements previous research that up to date has had its focus limited to firms listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). Furthermore, it isolates the effects of Integrated Reporting from those of Sustainability Reporting by using a DiD approach.

Keywords: Integrated Reporting, cost of capital, bid-ask spread, expected cash flows, market value

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Carlos, Effects of Integrated Reporting on the Firm's Value: Evidence from Voluntary Adopters of the IIRC's Framework (November 26, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2876145 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2876145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
DiD estimators are also positive and statistically significant when this construct is computed with horizons of five
Following Damodaran
Posted: 2005
Klaus Buhr , Lawrence (Larry) Craig Rose , Xiaoming Li
Lead Lag Direction and Price Discovery of the S&P/ASX 200 Share Price Index and the S&P/ASX 200 Index Options
20th Australasian Finance & Banking Conference 2007 Paper Pages: 50 Posted: 27 Aug 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C A Adams
The international integrated reporting council: a call to action
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 27 , p. 23 - 28 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,323
RANK
45,226
3 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies