Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Duties of Significant Shareholders in Transactions with the Company

Published in Shareholders’ Duties, Hanne S. Birkmose (ed.), Kluwer Law International, 2017

Nordic & European Company Law Working Paper No. 18-11

31 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2016 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Christoph Van der Elst

Tilburg Law School; Ghent University - Department of Business Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 23, 2016

Abstract

According to accounting rules, companies must provide a (financial) summarized overview of related party transactions, among which are transactions with shareholders. This study of the Euro STOXX small 200 shows that transactions with large shareholders are common and a significant number of these transactions are material compared to the size of the company. Unfortunately, the reporting standards are not in accordance with the information that is necessary to assess whether the potential conflicts of interests are mitigated. In its proposal to revise the shareholder rights directive, the European Commission provides – in its current 2015 version - in a process of disclosure of the transaction, the assessment of the fairness of the transaction for the company and its minority shareholders by an independent body and an approval by the (supervisory) board and/or the shareholders. However, the proposal will more than likely not overcome the major concerns of the capital market regarding conflicts of interest within companies.

I suggest involving the external auditor and the audit committee. The external auditor’s duties already include the control over the related party transactions. Consequently, these duties can be broadened as to include the reasonable assurance that the envisaged related party transactions are economic fair transactions. Further the audit committee must be established in public interest entities with a duty to monitor i.a. the performance of the work of the auditor. Consequently it can include the work of the auditor regarding related party transactions. The audit committee can serve as the body that approves the related party transaction. This procedure can help to mitigate the conflicts of interests in related party transactions.

Keywords: Shareholder transactions, duties

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Van der Elst, Christoph, The Duties of Significant Shareholders in Transactions with the Company (November 23, 2016). Published in Shareholders’ Duties, Hanne S. Birkmose (ed.), Kluwer Law International, 2017, Nordic & European Company Law Working Paper No. 18-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2876575 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2876575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Michele Pizzo
Related Party Transactions under a Contingency Perspective , p. 212 - 213 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Emiliano Di , Carlo
Related Party Transactions and Separation between Control and Direction in Business Groups: The Italian Case
Corp. Gov , volume 14 , p. 60 - 61 Posted: 2014
Ibid
317. 16. Ibid , p. 315 - 316
Crossref
See for three elaborated cases (Coca-Cola, Biglari and Gazprom) in Vladimir Atanasov
U. Ill. L. Rev , p. 1724 - 1734 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,751
RANK
409,437
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies