Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theory of Assurance: Balancing Costly Formal Control with Tone at the Top

42 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2016 Last revised: 15 May 2019

Mark Penno

University of Iowa - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 13, 2019

Abstract

Informal tone at the top (TATT) is widely regarded as a fundamental ingredient of organizational control, yet due to its soft nature, the scholarship on TATT has not emphasized mathematical modeling. Observing that TATT refers to the example set by top management, I model TATT as ceteris paribus reflecting the expectation that the CEO will not divert organizational resources for personal benefit. The setting assumes that CEOs are randomly drawn from a labor pool containing candidates who either value career prospects (high type) or who do not value career prospects (low type). The fear of dismissal and a damaged career mean that high types tend to be less opportunistic than the low types who divert for personal gain. Contrary to the belief that trust and vulnerability go hand-in-hand, I identify conditions where TATT and optimal costly formal controls are complements. But I also show in the same setting that TATT and optimal formal controls can be substitutes. The results also explain why high levels of TATT may not be welcomed by the external auditor or certain stakeholders and explain ambiguous Sarbanes-Oxley reports.

Keywords: Tone at the Top, Formal Control, SOX, COSO, Audit risk

JEL Classification: Z1, M4

Suggested Citation:

Penno, Mark C., A Theory of Assurance: Balancing Costly Formal Control with Tone at the Top (May 13, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2876700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2876700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
13 Citations
Social Norms and the Theory of the Firm
, p. 161 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Douglas E. Stevens
Social Norms and the Theory of the Firm
Posted: 2018
Crossref
Social Norms and the Theory of the Firm
, p. 186 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Social Norms and the Theory of the Firm
, p. 105 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,213
RANK
388,737
13 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies