Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Acquisitions of Private Targets Create Higher Value?

46 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2016

Thomas Z. Lys

Northwestern University - Kellogg School of Management

Nir Yehuda

University of Delaware - Accounting & MIS

Date Written: November 30, 2016

Abstract

Acquirers, on average, earn higher announcement-period returns when their targets are privately held than when their targets are publicly traded. We show that private targets have significantly more intangible assets than do public targets. We then develop a valuation model that is based on the fair values of the targets’ tangible and intangible assets and demonstrate that relative to public targets, private targets, while commanding higher premiums over their stand-alone values, also generate higher synergies in the acquisitions. However, the higher synergies in private target acquisitions are not the result of the target status but are driven by the larger amount of intangible assets acquired in those deals. We also find that the variance of synergies in private targets is much larger than that in acquisitions of public targets. Finally, our results are robust for known effects such as mode of payment and expected growth.

Keywords: Private Targets, Intangibles

JEL Classification: G14, G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lys, Thomas Z. and Yehuda, Nir, Do Acquisitions of Private Targets Create Higher Value? (November 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2877589 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2877589
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
E Amir , Lev , B
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communication industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , issue 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
G Andrade , M Mitchell , Stafford E
New evidence and perspectives on mergers
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 120 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Barth , G Clinch
Revalued financial, tangible, and intangible assets: Associations with share prices and non-market-based estimates
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 199 - 233 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Beatty , J Weber
Accounting discretion in fair value estimates: an examination of SFAS 142 goodwill impairment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 288 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Shin Hyoung Kwon , Irene Guannan Wang
Market Responses to Private and Public Targets: The Role of Goodwill Valuation*
Asia-Pacific Journal of Financial Studies , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 89 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
529
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,394
RANK
121,100
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies