Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Practices in Indian Banks

Journal of Business Management & Social Sciences Research (JBM&SSR), Volume 2, No. 5, May 2013

15 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2016

Rajat Deb

Tripura University

Date Written: May 01, 2013

Abstract

Corporate Governance has fast emerged as a benchmark for judging corporate excellence in the context of national and international business practices. From guidelines and desirable code of conduct some decade ago, corporate governance is now recognized as a paradigm for improving competitiveness and enhancing efficiency and thus improving investors‘ confidence and accessing capital, both domestic as well as foreign. What is important is that corporate governance has become a dynamic concept and not static one. Banks form a crucial link in a country‘s financial system and their well-being is imperative for the economy. The significant transformation of the banking industry in India is clearly evident from the changes that have occurred in the financial markets, institutions and products. While deregulation has opened up new vistas for banks to augment revenues, it has entailed greater competition and consequently greater risks. Cross-border flows and the entry of new products have significantly influenced the domestic banking sector, forcing banks to adjust the product mix, as also to effect rapid changes in their processes and operations in order to remain competitive in the globalized environment. These developments have facilitated greater choices for consumers who have become more discerning and demanding compelling banks to offer a broader range of products through diverse distribution channels. In such scenario, implementation of good corporate governance practices in banks can ensure them to cope with the changing environment. Today‘s corporate governance means to do everything better and provides for risk assessment, risk cover, early warning systems against failure as well as prompt corrective action.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, SEBI, CEO, Board of Directors, Stakeholders

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Deb, Rajat, Corporate Governance Practices in Indian Banks (May 01, 2013). Journal of Business Management & Social Sciences Research (JBM&SSR), Volume 2, No. 5, May 2013 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2877596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
S C Das
Corporate Governance Standards & Practice in India‖, The Management Accountant , p. 600 - 613 Posted: 2007
M G Velasquez
Business EthicsConcepts and Cases Posted: 2006
B B Tayal , C B Gupta
Politics, Ethics and Social Responsibility of Business Posted: 2005
Birla Kumar Mangalam
SEBI cited on Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
980
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,796
RANK
53,831
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies