Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Micro Observers of Election Commission of India Act Like Independent Directors of Corporate Houses?

Journal of Business Management & Social Sciences Research (JBM&SSR), Volume 2, No. 5, May 2013

7 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2016

Rajat Deb

Tripura University

Date Written: May 01, 2013

Abstract

Superintendence, direction and control of preparation of electoral rolls for, and the conduct of elections, to Parliament and state legislatures and elections to the offices of President and Vic-President of India are vested in the Election Commission of India. It is an independent constitutional authority set up in pursuance of Article 324(1) of the Constitution of India. The literature on corporate governance and various codes emphasis that the Board of directors should provide direction to the company, evaluate and approve strategies, appoint and remove the chief executive officer and decide the compensation for him and other members of the top management. Model elections as well as good governance of Boards cannot be fully ensured by external legislation alone but has to build overtime and best set for success lies in building a climate of trust and candor in the ECI / Board to share important information with observers and directors in time, introducing measures for evaluating ECI’s and Board’s performance in terms of integrity of Micro Observers and Independent Directors, quality of them, degree of knowledge and personal relationships. The government expects Independent Directors to bring an independent judgment to bear on the Board’s deliberations especially on the issue of strategy, performance; risk management, resources, key appointments and standards of conduct and bring an objective view in the evaluation of performance of Board and management. Similarly ECI assumes that the micro observers will ensure free and fair election and they will act like an ear and eye of the election commission and ensure the entrusted great responsibility with upmost care. This paper try’s to bring out the similarities of ‘modus operandi’ between the Micro Observers and Independent Directors and the challenges cropping up in the changing socio, political, economic, eventual and technological environment of India.

Keywords: Election Commission of India, Corporate Governance, Micro Observer, Independent Director, Corruption and Fraud, Board of Directors.

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Deb, Rajat, Are Micro Observers of Election Commission of India Act Like Independent Directors of Corporate Houses? (May 01, 2013). Journal of Business Management & Social Sciences Research (JBM&SSR), Volume 2, No. 5, May 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2877598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
T V Rao
Managers Who Make a Difference, Random House India, Sector 16A Posted: 2010
B Burchard
The Millionaire Messenger Posted: 2011
Raju Durgadoss
A Saint in the Board Room Posted: 2012
Sia Shruti, Election Reforms in India and Challenges before the Election Commission , p. 23 - 26
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,115
RANK
798,750
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies