Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Governance Mechanisms on the Volume of Share Trading in Companies Listed in Tehran Stock Exchange

13 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2016

Seyyed Oskuee

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Tabriz Branch

Saeed Samimi

Islamic Azad University (IAU), Tabriz Branch

Date Written: November 30, 2016

Abstract

Lack of monitoring the performance of managers not only has trampled the rights of shareholders and other stakeholders of the company, but also has increased the personal interests of managers in the absence of adequate monitoring on their performance. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of some of the corporate governance mechanisms on the volume of share trading in companies listed in Tehran Stock Exchange.93 companies listed in Tehran Stock Exchange are selected as sample using systematic removal method for the period 2007-2014. Data were also collected as combined panel data and were tested using multiple regression and econometrics models. The results showed that the independence of board of directors has a significant negative impact on the volume of share trading in companies. Moreover, the separation of the responsibilities of the manager and his membership in board of directors has no significant effect on the dependent variable of the study. Institutional investors ownership and auditor industry specialization have also a significant negative impact on the volume of share trading in companies. Eventually, the size of audit firm as one of the other audit quality standards has no significant effect on the volume of share trading in companies.

Keywords: Non-executive members of the board, directors, Volume of share trading, Audit quality, Dual responsibilities of manager, Institutional investor ownership

Suggested Citation:

Oskuee, Seyyed and Samimi, Saeed, The Effect of Corporate Governance Mechanisms on the Volume of Share Trading in Companies Listed in Tehran Stock Exchange (November 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2877635 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2877635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Ahmadpur , M Kashanipoor , M Shojaee
investigating the effect of corporate governance and auditing quality on the cost of financing through debt" (borrowing), The Iranian Accounting and Auditing Review , volume 17 Posted: 2008
Claudio Henrique Barbedo , Eduardo Camilo-da-Silva , Ricardo Pereira Câmara Leal
Probability of Information-Based Trading, Intraday Liquidity and Corporate Governance in the Brazilian Stock Market
Pages: 19 Posted: 9 Apr 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Didar , Gh , M Mansourfar , Kafami
investigating the impact of corporate governance mechanisms on the tax gap
The Iranian Accounting and Auditing Review , volume 3 , issue 17 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2014
N Duong , D Robert
Areturn-VolumeVolatility Analysis of Futures Contracts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 61 , issue 5 , p. 43 - 76 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,691
RANK
549,043
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies