Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Wells Fargo Cross-Selling Scandal

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-62 Version 2

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 17-1

16 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2016 Last revised: 14 Jan 2019

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: January 8, 2019

Abstract

In this updated Closer Look, we examine the tensions between corporate culture, financial incentives, and employee conduct as illustrated by the Wells Fargo cross-selling scandal. In 2016, Wells Fargo admitted that employees had opened as many as 2 million accounts without customer authorization over a five-year period. We discuss the factors that contributed to the scandal, the repercussions for the bank, and its response.

We ask:

• How did the company’s incentive system contribute to the scandal?
• Would the system have worked better if coupled with additional metrics or controls?
• What systems should have been put in place to identify and escalate potential problems earlier?
• What steps should senior management have taken to better contain the fallout?
• Is an inside or outside CEO successor better positioned to help the bank recover?
• How do you maximize the positive contribution that incentives make to culture while minimizing potentially negative outcomes?

The Stanford Closer Look series is a collection of short case studies through which we explore topics, issues, and controversies in corporate governance and executive leadership. In each study, we take a targeted look at a specific issue that is relevant to the current debate on governance and explain why it is so important. Larcker and Tayan are co-authors of the books “Corporate Governance Matters” and “A Real Look at Real World Corporate Governance.”

This updates the original Closer Look with more recent information.

Keywords: Corporate governance, risk, reputational risk, risk management, scandal, culture, tone at the top, leadership, incentives, incentive systems, compensation, controls, oversight, board of directors, corporate governance research

JEL Classification: G3, G30, G34

Suggested Citation:

Tayan, Brian, The Wells Fargo Cross-Selling Scandal (January 8, 2019). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-62 Version 2, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 17-1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2879102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21,520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
47,496
RANK
329
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies