Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Effect of Corporate Sovereignty Mechanisms on the Stock Returns of Listed Companies of Tehran Stock Exchange

19 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2016

Saeed Samimi

Islamic Azad University (IAU), Tabriz Branch

Seyyed Oskuee

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Tabriz Branch

Date Written: December 5, 2016

Abstract

Facilitating domestic and foreign investment and the expected stock returns of shareholders are issues that are typically important for all stakeholders of the company. The alignment of the interests of stakeholders and managers of companies can be achieved by reducing the problems of the agency. The decrease of these problems increases the shareholder's interest in trading on the capital markets and results in the increase of stock liquidity and expected return of shareholders. This study aims to explore some of the corporate governance mechanisms on the stock returns of listed companies in Tehran Stock Exchange. The explored governance mechanisms of the study included non-executive members of the board of directors, the duality of responsibility of the managing director, ownership of institutional shareholders, and audit quality. To this end, 93 companies were chosen through the systematic elimination from 2007 to 2014 which were analyzed using panel data regression analysis. The results of the study indicated that institutional ownership and auditor specialization in industry had an effect on the stock return. In addition, independence of the board of directors, managing director responsibilities and the size of audit institution had no effect on the stock return.

Keywords: Audit quality, institutional ownership, managing director duality of responsibility, Non-executive members of the board of directors, stock return

Suggested Citation:

Samimi, Saeed and Oskuee, Seyyed, Investigating the Effect of Corporate Sovereignty Mechanisms on the Stock Returns of Listed Companies of Tehran Stock Exchange (December 5, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2880765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,554
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies