Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mandatory Management Disclosure and Mandatory Independent Audit of Internal Controls: Evidence of Configural Information Processing by Investors

67 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2016

Khim Kelly

University of Central Florida

Hun-Tong Tan

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

We conduct an experiment where alumni participants from a Canadian accounting and finance undergraduate program assume they are in one of four regulatory regimes (manipulated between-subjects) and make investment potential evaluations for two firms (manipulated within-subjects): a firm disclosing no material weaknesses (No-MW disclosure firm) and a firm disclosing material weaknesses (MW disclosure firm) in internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR). We find evidence of configural information processing. For the No-MW disclosure firm, mandatory (versus voluntary) disclosure of ICFR material weaknesses and mandatory (versus voluntary) independent ICFR audit are substitutes in enhancing investment potential evaluations. However, for the MW disclosure firm, neither mandatory disclosure nor mandatory audit has any effect on investment potential evaluations. Supplementary experiments with undergraduate participants suggest that the pattern of configural information processing is a function of participants’ knowledge of company disclosure incentives and the assurance value of an audit, wherein undergraduates with lower levels of knowledge are less able to perceive the effects of mandatory disclosure and mandatory audit on investment potential evaluations. Our findings have implications for regulators who are concerned about balancing the costs and benefits of different regulatory mechanisms.

Keywords: Internal Controls over Financial Reporting; Mandatory Management Disclosure; Mandatory Independent Audit; Configural Information Processing

Suggested Citation:

Kelly, Khim and Tan, Hun-Tong, Mandatory Management Disclosure and Mandatory Independent Audit of Internal Controls: Evidence of Configural Information Processing by Investors (December 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2881492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2881492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Kristian D. Allee , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Demand for Financial Statements in an Unregulated Environment: an Examination of the Production and Use of Financial Statements By Privately-Held Small Businesses
Pages: 49 Posted: 2 Feb 2005 Last revised: 14 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball , S Jayaraman , L Shivakumar
Audited financial reporting and voluntary disclosure as complements: A test of the confirmation hypothesis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 136 - 166 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,171
RANK
364,455
3 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies