Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Internal Audit Operations-Related Services and Firm Operating Performance

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Dec 2016 Last revised: 25 Nov 2019

Like Jiang

University of Melbourne - Faculty of Business and Economics

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 5, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, we examine whether operations-related services (ORS) provided by the internal audit function (IAF) bring economic benefits to firms. Using a sample constructed by matching a global internal auditor survey with public firms’ data in Compustat, we find that the extent of the IAF’s involvement in ORS has a significant positive association with operating performance. Further, by decomposing ORS into traditional assessment services (e.g., operational audit) and more business-oriented facilitation services (e.g., strategy consulting), we document that assessment services are prevalent in the IAFs whereas facilitation services are less frequent. Both types of services have a positive effect on operating performance. Moreover, we find that the positive relation between ORS and operating performance is only achieved for companies that follow a defender (as opposed to a prospector) business strategy and that extensively outsourcing internal audit activities reduces the positive effect of ORS on operating performance. Overall, our findings shed light on the current debate about the value added by the IAF.

Keywords: internal audit function, consulting services, operating performance, outsourcing, CBOK

JEL Classification: M4, M42, L25, G3

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, Like and Messier Jr, William F. and Wood, David A., The Association between Internal Audit Operations-Related Services and Firm Operating Performance (June 5, 2019). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2882787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2882787
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,738
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies