Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Coverage and Management Earnings Guidance

Posted: 8 Dec 2016 Last revised: 11 Nov 2021

Jihun Bae

City University London

Robin Litjens

Nyenrode Business University; Tilburg University - CentER and Department of Accountancy

Chul W. Park

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business

Yachang Zeng

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: December 8, 2016

Abstract

The business media disseminates managers’ earnings guidance news more broadly or creates new information content on the guidance (Drake et al. 2014). We hypothesize that the media’s information dissemination encourages managers to continue issuing earnings guidance because their intended messages in earnings guidance can be transmitted more broadly and free of cost to managers. We also hypothesize that the media’s information creation induces managers to stop issuing earnings guidance because the media might interfere with managers’ intended guidance outcomes. Using a comprehensive dataset of media articles covering management guidance from 2007 to 2012, we find evidence supporting these hypotheses. Our findings provide fresh insight into the information flow in financial markets by documenting not only positive but also negative influences that the media, through its dual roles, exerts on managers’ guidance behavior.

Keywords: business media coverage, management guidance, information dissemination, information creation

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bae, Jihun and Litjens, Robin and Park, Chul Won and Zeng, Yachang, Media Coverage and Management Earnings Guidance (December 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2882405 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2882405
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Nanyang Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies