Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal and External Company's Factors on Audit Delay Study from Indonesia Stock Exchange

11 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2016

Rizal Mawardi

Airlangga University, Students

Date Written: December 9, 2016

Abstract

The development of auditing companies go public next is not easy because of the claim by the application of good corporate governance practices that emphasize the importance of transparency and public accountability. The length of time of completion of the audit may affect the timeliness of publication of the report that have an impact on the market's reaction and affect the level of decisions taken based on information from the published reports. In addition, the regulations limit the submission of financial reports to the Financial Services Authority (OJK). This has been an interesting finding, that there are several factors that lead to increased Term Audit (Audit Delay), so Researcher looked at the internal and external factors affecting the company's Audit Delay.

Keywords: Profitability, Solvability, Company Size, Public Accounting Firm, Audit Delay

Suggested Citation:

Mawardi, Rizal, Internal and External Company's Factors on Audit Delay Study from Indonesia Stock Exchange (December 9, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2883194 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2883194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
656
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,556
RANK
92,012
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies