Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Family Firms IPO Activity and Pricing: Evidence from Poland

13 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2016

Paweł Perz

Rzeszow University of Technology

Date Written: November 24, 2016

Abstract

Lack of sufficient capital is sometimes one of the barriers for the development of family firms. In a situation when the company owners do not have the possibility to recapitalize the company, or no possibility of increasing the scale of the use of foreign capital, an important source of funding may become an issue of shares directed to external entities. The article analyzes the activity of family firms in the process of raising capital through the issue of shares on the public market of securities - Stock Exchange and in the alternative trading system – NewConnect market. The analysis was conducted based on data from 2013-2015. In that period the share issues of family firms accounted for 30% of all IPOs on the Warsaw Stock Exchange and 43% on the NewConnect market. The article also examined the phenomenon of stock prices underpricing in the initial public offering. The scale of underpricing in family firms and other companies was compared.

Keywords: family firms, IPO, NewConnect, Warsaw Stock Exchange

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Perz, Paweł, Family Firms IPO Activity and Pricing: Evidence from Poland (November 24, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2884709 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2884709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,590
RANK
517,938
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies