Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockholder Exit Threats in the Presence of Private Benefits of Control

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2884812

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2016-1180

50 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2016 Last revised: 13 Jan 2017

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Han Wu

HEC Paris

Wuyang Zhao

McGill University - Desautels Faculty of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 13, 2016

Abstract

Exit theory predicts a governance role of outside blockholders’ exit threats; but this role could be ineffective if managers’ potential private benefits exceed their loss in stock-price declines caused by outside blockholders’ exit. We test this prediction using the Split-Share Structure Reform (SSSR) in China, which provided a large, exogenous, and permanent shock to the cost for outside blockholders to exit. Using a difference-in-differences design combined with propensity-score matching, we find that firms whose outside blockholders experience an increase in exit threats have a greater improvement in performance than those whose outside blockholders experience no increase. Moreover, the governance effect of exit threats is ineffective in the group of firms with the highest concern for private benefits of control. Finally, a battery of theory-motivated tests show that the documented effects are unlikely explained by outside blockholder intervention or some well-known intended effects of SSSR.

Keywords: Exit-Threat Theory, Private Benefits of Control, Liquidity, China, Split-Share Structure Reform, Operating Performance, Quasi-Experiment

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G32, G31, F30, F23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Wu, Han and Zhao, Wuyang, Blockholder Exit Threats in the Presence of Private Benefits of Control (December 13, 2016). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2884812, HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2016-1180, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2884812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,119
RANK
73,532
3 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies