Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Compliance Costs of Securities Regulation: A Bunching Analysis of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404(b)

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6180

57 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2016

Dhammika Dharmapala

UC Berkeley School of Law; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 16, 2016

Abstract

An extensive literature has analyzed the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) legislation enacted in 2002, but its social welfare consequences remain controversial. One of the most significant provisions of SOX – auditor attestation of internal controls under Section 404(b) – has been applied only to firms that have a public float (i.e. the market value of shares held by non-insiders) of at least $75 million. Public float is not reported in standard databases; this paper “scrapes” public float data from 10-K filings, resulting in about 161,000 observations at the firm-year level for the universe of reporting entities for fiscal years 1993-2015. The analysis compares the number of public float observations immediately below the $75 million threshold to a smooth counterfactual density estimated using a flexible polynomial fitted to the observed density away from the threshold. In the pre-SOX period, there is no detectable divergence between the actual and counterfactual density around $75 million. Since the enactment of SOX, there is substantial and statistically significant “bunching” below the threshold, exhibiting a bimodal pattern. The magnitude of bunching implies that firms around the threshold reduce their public float by about $1.7 million. This estimate is consistent with SOX 404(b) imposing a net compliance cost of about $4-$6 million (in present value terms) on firms in the region of the threshold. The results are robust to considering various alternative explanations for bunching, including the possibility that firms’ insiders avoid crossing the threshold in order to continue extracting private benefits of control. The paper also explores potential financial and economic consequences of bunching, in particular on the debt financing and investment choices of firms close to threshold.

Keywords: securities regulation, Sarbanes-Oxley, public float, compliance costs, bunching analysis

JEL Classification: G380, K220

Suggested Citation:

Dharmapala, Dhammika, Estimating the Compliance Costs of Securities Regulation: A Bunching Analysis of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404(b) (November 16, 2016). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 6180, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2885849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2885849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,250
RANK
76,893
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies