Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Good Buffer, Bad Buffer: Smoothing in Banks' Loan Loss Provisions and the Response to Credit Supply Shocks

Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting, Forthcoming

61 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2016 Last revised: 25 Feb 2020

Sudarshan Jayaraman

Simon Business School, University of Rochester; University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Bryce Schonberger

University of Colorado at Boulder - Leeds School of Business

Joanna S. Wu

University of Rochester - Simon Business School

Date Written: August 15, 2019

Abstract

Bank regulators and academics have long conjectured the beneficial effects of smoothing in loan loss provisions (i.e., making higher provisions during good times so as to avoid doing so during bad times) for bank lending and stability, while accounting regulators express concerns about its potential adverse impact on reporting transparency. Using the late 1990s emerging market crisis to capture an adverse supply shock to bank capital, we show, consistent with the bright-side, that ensuing contractions in bank lending are weaker for banks that built buffers via smoothing. These lending differences translate into positive real effects for the buffering banks’ small borrowers. However, consistent with the dark-side, these benefits of smoothing are absent in banks with insider lending, suggesting opportunistic smoothing. Overall, our results highlight the tradeoff between bank stability and transparency inherent in smoothing loan loss provisions – while proactive recognition of unrealized losses reduces bank transparency, it increases bank stability (if and) when losses materialize.

Keywords: smoothing, loan loss provisioning, capital crunch, crisis, bank lending

JEL Classification: G01, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Jayaraman, Sudarshan and Schonberger, Bryce and Wu, Joanna S., Good Buffer, Bad Buffer: Smoothing in Banks' Loan Loss Provisions and the Response to Credit Supply Shocks (August 15, 2019). Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2886181 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2886181
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,329
RANK
136,170
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies