Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamics of Dividend Payout in Emerging Stock Markets: Evidence from Public Firms at Nairobi Securities Exchange, Kenya

177 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2016

Dennis Bulla

Masinde Muliro University of Science & Technology

Date Written: December 18, 2016

Abstract

Dividend decisions are central to corporate finance because of its relationship with firm value, finance and investment. Emerging stock markets like the Nairobi Securities Exchange have been hypothesized to exhibit unpredictable dividend behavior by some finance scholars. The thesis is guided by the hypothesis that emerging market firms following dividend pattern different from that of developed stock markets and that determinants of payout exhibit different behavior in different stock exchanges. A mixed design involving panel data from 40 firms over the period 2000 to 2010 and cross section data from finance officers of 40 firms provide evidence of dividend dynamics for quoted companies at the exchange. Panel data estimation techniques along with logistic regression are applied in analysis and testing of hypotheses at 0.05 level based on firm and industry characteristics. Conclusions include; dividends payout by listed firms at the NSE are influenced and predicted mainly by prior dividends (73%) followed by changes in current after tax earnings (3.5%) and lastly business risk to a lesser extent. Secondly, three companies consistently paid significantly higher dividends than their peers in the study period. Thirdly, majority of corporate managers do not smooth dividends when distributing earnings. Forth, Fama and Babiak (1968) dividend model best explains dividend behaviour of NSE firms compared to Lintner (1956) model. Fifth dividend payout in this market is explained by agency cost, signaling and information asymmetry theories. Lastly industry and time effects have no link to dividend decisions of firms in the market. Recommendations include; Shareholders and new investors at NSE should consider prior dividends and earnings changes when making choices about which stock(s) to buy. Dividend payout need to be stabilized by corporate managers to enhance value especially by firms in sectors facing high risk and growth prospects. More so dividend paying firms are preferred by investors to non-paying firms and that changes in dividends elicit excitement among investors compared to keeping dividend unchanged. Finally management of three firms namely Bamburi Cement, Kapchorua Tea and BOC Ltd possess superior talent compared to other firms in their respective industries.

Keywords: Dividend payout, Nairobi Securities Exchange, Determinants,Dynamics.

Suggested Citation:

Bulla, Dennis, Dynamics of Dividend Payout in Emerging Stock Markets: Evidence from Public Firms at Nairobi Securities Exchange, Kenya (December 18, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2887094 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2887094
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,347
RANK
560,264
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies