Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is SOX 404(a) Management Internal Control Reporting an Effective Alternative to SOX 404(b) Internal Control Audits?

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Dec 2016

Yangyang Fan

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Chan Li

University of Kansas

Kannan Raghunandan

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Date Written: December 20, 2016

Abstract

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX 2002) continues to be controversial. Using samples of SEC registrants with market capitalizations less than $150 million we find that, non-accelerated filers have significantly larger reduction in the likelihood of material misstatements, discretionary revenues and discretionary accruals compared to smaller accelerated filers after non-accelerated filers became subject to the requirements of Section 404(a). Our findings are consistent with the argument that management reporting on internal controls (Section 404 (a)) may be a cost effective alternative to internal control audits (Section 404(b)) for smaller U.S. public companies.

JEL Classification: M42, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Yangyang and Li, Chan and Raghunandan, Kannan, Is SOX 404(a) Management Internal Control Reporting an Effective Alternative to SOX 404(b) Internal Control Audits? (December 20, 2016). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2887832
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,720
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies