Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Religiosity Matter to Value Relevance? Evidence from U.S. Banking Firms

Posted: 21 Dec 2016

Lamia Chourou

University of Ottawa

Date Written: December 20, 2016

Abstract

This study examines whether religiosity is associated with the valuation multiples investors assign to fair valued assets that are susceptible to managerial bias. Using a sample of U.S. banking firms, I find that the value relevance of such assets is higher for firms located in more religious counties than for firms located in less religious counties. Further evidence shows that the positive association between religiosity and value relevance is limited to firms with high fair value exposure. The results of this study suggest that investors perceive the role played by religiosity in curbing managerial accounting biases and price the accounting estimates accordingly.

Keywords: Fair Value, Managerial Bias, Value Relevance, Religiosity

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Chourou, Lamia, Does Religiosity Matter to Value Relevance? Evidence from U.S. Banking Firms (December 20, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2888083
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,163
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies