Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Number of Professionally Certified Accounting Experts on Audit Committees and Confidence in Earnings: A Study of Retail Investors’ Perceptions

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 3, 2016

29 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2016

Alan Levitan

University of Louisville - College of Business and Public Administration

David A. Dubofsky

Independent ; University of Louisville - Department of Finance

Lyle Sussman

University of Louisville

Date Written: December 21, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to determine whether the composition of a company’s audit committee affects decisions by retail (non-institutional) investors. We examine if these investors’ confidence in reported earnings is affected by the number of committee experts under the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s original, more restrictive definition of an expert (accountants and auditors), the expanded definition, or those who do not qualify under either definition. A sample of AAII (American Association of Independent Investors) members responded to an Internet-based questionnaire and assessed their confidence in the earnings quality of a hypothetical company, contingent on the financial expertise represented in the committee. Results suggest that as the number of Certified Public Accountants (experts under the more restrictive definition) on an audit committee increases, there is a general tendency for confidence in earnings to increase also. The statistical significance of this trend however is illuminated by both demographic and behavioral characteristics of the investors.

Keywords: CPAs, audit committee composition, audit committee financial expertise

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Levitan, Alan and Dubofsky, David A. and Sussman, Lyle, The Number of Professionally Certified Accounting Experts on Audit Committees and Confidence in Earnings: A Study of Retail Investors’ Perceptions (December 21, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2888307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Dubofsky &amp; Levitan , Sussman
Certified Accounting Experts , volume 744
Crossref
Modern Economy , volume 3 , p. 856 - 872 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Bryan , M H C Liu , S L Tiras , Z Zhuang
Optimal versus Suboptimal Choices of Accounting Expertise on Audit Committees and Earnings Quality
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 18 , p. 1123 - 1158 Posted: 2013-12
Crossref
L Bruynseels , G Krishnamoorthy , A Wright
The Association between Audit Committee Chair Characteristics and the Financial Reporting Process Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,429
RANK
407,330
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies