Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between Total Management Team (TMT) Compensation and Corporate Governance: The Case of Saudi Stock Market

21 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2016

Basmah Altuwaijri

King Saud University

Date Written: December 24, 2016

Abstract

This research aims to evaluate emergent or new dimensions of corporate governance (CG) practice in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as demonstrated by selected companies listed in the Saudi stock exchange. The research seeks to enrich existing literature in the field for best practice and cutting-edge research applications by undertaking the tripartite processes of: (1) analyzing the firm size elasticity of total management team (TMT) compensation; (2) investigating the simultaneous relationship between TMT compensation and firm performance, controlling for the firm size and other firm-specific variables; and (3) evaluating the impact of the firm board control on TMT compensation accounting for the firm’s ownership structure, including vital policies related to board control, ownership shares, composition, membership, and other firm specific variables. The results of this research will have important implications for both companies and policy makers, as the outcomes guide companies toward best CG practices and encourage policy makers to leverage these regulations to improved performance of the listed companies. The research outcomes will also afford guidelines on how to use the board composition and its control on TMT in the alignment of the goals of top executives with that of the owners of the firm by structuring TMT pay.

Keywords: TMT Compensation, Firm Performance, Corporate Governance, Saudi Arabia

JEL Classification: M12, M52

Suggested Citation:

Altuwaijri, Basmah, The Relationship between Total Management Team (TMT) Compensation and Corporate Governance: The Case of Saudi Stock Market (December 24, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2889750 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2889750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,684
RANK
382,931
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies