Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Implications of Mandatory Clawback Provisions

63 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2016 Last revised: 11 Jul 2025

Tor-Erik Bakke

University of Illinois at Chicago - Department of Finance

Hamed Mahmudi

University of Delaware - Department of Finance

Aazam Virani

Independent

Date Written: February 17, 2023

Abstract

We find evidence suggesting that mandatory clawback provisions are value-enhancing. We examine the stock market reaction to the SEC’s announcement of a proposed rule to make clawback provisions mandatory. The proposed rules were significantly stronger than existing clawback provisions that many firms had voluntarily adopted. We find that firms without a clawback provision exhibited positive abnormal returns of 0.6% around the announcement of the proposed rule. Firms with a clawback provision did not exhibit statistically significant abnormal announcement returns. The announcement’s return is most positive for firms without clawbacks that have more powerful management.

Keywords: clawback provisions, corporate governance, executive compensation, financial restatements, regulation

Suggested Citation:

Bakke, Tor-Erik and Mahmudi, Hamed and Virani, Aazam, The Value Implications of Mandatory Clawback Provisions (February 17, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2890578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2890578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A Ackerman , A , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
I Babenko , B Bennett , J M Bizjak , J L Coles
Clawback Provisions Posted: 2017
I Babenko , B Bennett , J M Bizjak , J L Coles , J J Sandvik
Clawback Provisions and Firm Risk
The Review of Corporate Finance Studies , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 239 Posted: 2023
W R Baber , S H Kang , L Liang , Z Zhu
External Corporate Governance and Misreporting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 1413 - 1442 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
552
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,533
RANK
114,831
5 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies