Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Versus Fair Market Value Method for the Carrying Value of Investments in Common Stock: A Research Note

Bernardi, Richard A. and Williams, Megan D.: (2016). Equity versus fair market value method for the carrying value of investments in common stock: A research note, Journal of Accounting Ethics and Public Policy, 17 (4): 985-1000.

16 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2016 Last revised: 29 Dec 2016

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Megan Williams

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: December 26, 2016

Abstract

This study examines whether either the Equity or the Fair Market Value method of accounting for investments produces higher values for the balance sheet and income statement. We gathered data on 517 companies listed in the Value Line Investment Survey (i.e., 30.6% of the approximately 1,690 listed companies) and conducted an initial analysis of the data. This research examined whether firms might choose one method rather than the other merely to present a better income statement rather than for economic reasons. The differences apparent between the two methods suggest that the equity method does not anticipate future earnings whereas the Fair Market Value Method consistently provides a higher estimate of value (i.e. less conservative) in up markets. Consequently, the data indicate the equity method is a more conservative of the two methods.

Keywords: Fair Market Value Method and Equity Method

JEL Classification: G12, G18, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bernardi, Richard A. and Williams, Megan, Equity Versus Fair Market Value Method for the Carrying Value of Investments in Common Stock: A Research Note (December 26, 2016). Bernardi, Richard A. and Williams, Megan D.: (2016). Equity versus fair market value method for the carrying value of investments in common stock: A research note, Journal of Accounting Ethics and Public Policy, 17 (4): 985-1000., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2890228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Accounting Principles Board. 1971. The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, Accounting Principles Board Opinion No
Mark P Bauman
Proportionate consolidation versus the equity method: Additional evidence on the association with bond ratings
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 16 , issue 5 , p. 496 - 507 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Mark P Bauman
The impact and valuation of off-balancesheet activities concealed by equity method of accounting
Accounting Horizons , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 303 - 314 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Jack T Ciesielski
Reading the 2001 Annual Reports: A User's Guide
The Analyst's Accounting Observer , volume 11 , issue 4 Posted: 2002-02-28
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
534
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,361
RANK
119,702
7 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies