Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Regulation Violations and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Test of Legitimacy Theory in Indonesia Stock Exchange

Proceeding of International Conference on Accounting, Management, Economics and Social Sciences (ICAMESS) 2016, Millenium Hotel, Jakarta, 30 April 2016, ISBN: 978-602-73705-0-0

10 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2017

Habib Shahib

Universitas Fajar

Date Written: April 30, 2016

Abstract

This study aims to examine the empirical facts related to the legitimacy theory within the scope of financial regulation violations and corporate social responsibility disclosure (CSRD) of non-financial companies in Indonesia Stock Exchange. The data in this study was obtained from the Indonesia Stock Exchange. 24 non-financial violator-companies of financial regulation during the 2010-2013 period were chosen as the samples. The research hypotheses were analyzed by using a PLS statistics and SmartPLS 3.0 software. The empirical result of this study shows no effect of the financial regulations violations on the level of corporate social responsibility disclosure in Indonesia Stock Exchange. Thus this study confirms legitimacy theory in different socio-economic condition. Originality of this study lies on its research method that uses a value of fine in measuring the severity of company’s financial regulation violation and its empirical result that describes the form of legitimacy on different contexts, especially in the context of the Indonesian capital market.

Keywords: Legitimacy theory, Financial regulation violation, CSRD

Suggested Citation:

Shahib, Habib, Financial Regulation Violations and Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: A Test of Legitimacy Theory in Indonesia Stock Exchange (April 30, 2016). Proceeding of International Conference on Accounting, Management, Economics and Social Sciences (ICAMESS) 2016, Millenium Hotel, Jakarta, 30 April 2016, ISBN: 978-602-73705-0-0 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2891588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M Ansar
Analisis Faktor-Faktor yang Mempengaruhi Kecurangan Pelaporan Keuangan pada Perusahaan Publik di Indonesia Posted: 2013
Bapepam Lk
Laporan Tahunan Posted: 2010
J Bebbington , C Larrinaga , J M Moeva
Corporate Social Reporting and Reputation Risk Management. Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 337 - 361 Posted: 2008
Crossref
N Brown , C Deegan
The Public Disclosure of Environmental Performance Information: a test of Media Agenda Setting Theory and Legitimacy Theory. Accounting and Business Research , volume 16 , p. 558 - 581 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
768
RANK
747,544
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies