Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility Practices in Bangladesh: A Study on Commercial Banks

19 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2016

Md. Masud Rana

Department of Business Administration, Z.H. Sikdar University of Science and Technology

Manoj Roy

Government Bangabandhu College

Date Written: December 29, 2016

Abstract

Banks conduct business in the society. Hence, they have some responsibilities towards the welfare of the society. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as an integral part of the long term sustainable strategy has now emerged as a growing practice of the present banking sector. This study examines the relationship between responsibilities towards the society and contribution of the banks as a corporate body. The descriptive research has been conducted with secondary data which were collected from the annual reports of the selected commercial banks for the year 2012 to 2013, reviewing different relevant articles, books, periodic, journals etc. and relevant websites. The findings of the study reveals that CSR activities of the banks are concentrated in limited areas of the country especially on education, health, humanitarian and disaster, environment, sports and culture. Moreover, contribution of the commercial banks to CSR activities is very inconsequential in proportion to their profit amount.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Commercial Bank, Annual Report, Profit

Suggested Citation:

Rana, Md. Masud and Roy, Manoj, Corporate Social Responsibility Practices in Bangladesh: A Study on Commercial Banks (December 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2891359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2891359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
S M Alam
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of MNCs in Bangladesh: A case study on Grameen Phone Ltd
Journal of Potuakhali University of Science and Technology , volume 2 , p. 112 - 127 Posted: 2010
M Azim , Ahmed Ezaz , D&apos;netto Brian
Corporate Social Disclosure in Bangladesh: A Study of the Financial Sector
International Review of Business Research Papers
J Backman
Social responsibility and accountability Posted: 1975
S Bala , R Bhowmik
Statutory Amendments to the Income Tax Laws to effect the fiscal changes proposed through the national budget 2010-2011: A review, The Cost & Management , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , p. 5 - 14 Posted: 2010-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
750
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,594
RANK
77,448
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Theory & Practice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies