Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Influence of Corporate Governance on Firm Profitability: The Case of Quoted Food and Beverages Companies in Nigeria

74 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2016

Comrade Kalu Nnanna Nwonyuku

Federal Inland Revenue Service

Date Written: April 07, 2016

Abstract

Corporate governance has the capacity to determine firm profitability. This study explored the underlying assumptions by examining the influence of corporate governance on profitability of firms, specifically using quoted food and beverages companies in Nigeria. The study employed two sets of secondary data – corporate governance characteristics and profitability indicators, while firm size served as a control variable over a period of ten years, spanning from 2003 to 2012. Five prediction models were employed to test the underlying assumptions. The data were analysed econometrically in software E–views 8.0 using basic descriptive statistics and pooled Ordinary Least Square (OLS) multiple regression in a panel data manner.

The results from the study revealed that at 5 per cent level of significance, board size has negative and insignificant relationship with earnings per share and return on capital employed, but with positive relationship with return on equity, net assets per share and net profit margin. However, it was found that board composition has negative relationship with firm profitability. Findings also indicated that board skills and competence has negative and weak relationship with return on equity, net assets per share and net profit margin, but statistically significant positive relationship was found between board skills and competence and earnings per share and return on capital employed, while board gender diversity results indicated positive but weak relationship with earnings per share, return on equity, net assets per share and net profit margin, but with a negative and insignificant relationship with return on capital employed.

The findings revealed that all other corporate governance characteristics indicated at least a positive relationship with profitability except board composition. Despite the mixed results, it can be argued that the empirical results support the contention that corporate governance has a positive influence on profitability of food and beverages firms in Nigeria, and the presence of good corporate governance tends to explain variance in firm profitability, thereby providing evidence to the implicit assumption that good corporate governance practices lead to stead increase in profitability of firms. It also concludes that improvement of the profitability of food and beverages firms in Nigeria is dependent on the effectiveness of corporate governance practices in place, hence good corporate governance serves as a veritable tool for sustaining business growth and survival as well as protecting and enhancing stakeholders’ interests.

The study recommends among other things, that food and beverages firms in Nigeria should adopt strong corporate governance practice as a panacea to firm growth and survival and to review the method of appointing independent non–executive directors while empowering them with inclusive leadership approach in order to enhance their effectiveness in improving profitability. Further research on impact of corporate governance on performance of public sector entities in Nigeria will not only add value in explaining performance of public sector entities, but also add value to the academic literature.

Keywords: corporate governance, profitability, food and beverages, Nigeria

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Nnanna Nwonyuku, Comrade Kalu, Evaluating the Influence of Corporate Governance on Firm Profitability: The Case of Quoted Food and Beverages Companies in Nigeria (April 07, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2891250 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2891250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
366 References
Renée B. Adams , Hamid Mehran
Is Corporate Governance Different for Bank Holding Companies?
Pages: 40 Posted: 1 May 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Abdullahi , B Valentine
Fundamental and Ethics Theories of Corporate Governance. Middle Eastern Finance and Economics , p. 88 - 96 Posted: 2009
S N Abdullah
Board Composition, CEO Duality and Performance among Malaysian Listed Companies
Corporate Governance , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 47 - 61 Posted: 2004
Abor , Biekpe
Does Corporate Governance Affect the Capital Structure Decision of Ghanaian SMES? Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,146
RANK
270,833
1 Citations
366 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies