Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Greater Disclosure of Information on CSR Performance Improve Analysts’ Forecast Accuracy?

39 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2016 Last revised: 20 Jan 2017

Jan-Frederic Schulz

University of St. Gallen

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

We analyze the effects of CSR disclosure on the accuracy of analysts’ share price targets. The accuracy of analysts’ price targets is value-relevant as it reduces firms’ capital costs. We assess this relationship for S&P 500 firms from 2009 to 2014, applying panel regressions. We find that the accuracy of analysts’ share price targets – measured as analysts’ forecast errors – worsen if firms disclose more information on CSR performance – measured using Bloomberg’s ESG disclosure score. This effect is further reinforced for firms in so-called “dirty” industries. We also find that the accuracy of analysts’ price targets increases if firms publish a separate CSR report and show good CSR performance. Based on our findings and prior literature, we argue that (1) analysts have difficulties processing additionally disclosed information on CSR, as this information is not sufficiently standardized for analysts to derive the correct impact on the firm’s future value as well as share price target, and that (2) a firm’s management may arbitrarily report on CSR performance to increase the firm’s value. We see further regulations on non-financial reporting similar to those on financial reporting as essential to change these situations.

Keywords: analysts forecast accuracy, non-financial disclosure, CSR disclosure, CSR performance

JEL Classification: G14, M14, Q51

Suggested Citation:

Schulz, Jan-Frederic, Does Greater Disclosure of Information on CSR Performance Improve Analysts’ Forecast Accuracy? (December 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2891328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2891328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
344
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,783
RANK
199,490
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies