Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Investment Performance of Common Stocks in Nigeria

The Investment Performance of Common Stocks in Nigeria, LAP publishing. GRIN publishing, 2006

218 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2017

Oluseun Paseda

University of Lagos - Faculty of Business Administration

Date Written: December 2006

Abstract

From the mid-1990s, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has witnessed remarkable growth mainly due to privatization, new minimum capital requirements, improvements in market infrastructure, amongst a host of other factors. The vast potential of the nation’s secondary market is clearly indicated in its high rating by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and Standard & Poors with respect to investment returns in dollar terms. Despite the growth in market capitalization, it is noted that when measured as a percentage of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), it is still quite low. The investment performance of capital market securities should enhance the contribution of the capital market to economic development. This study investigates the investment performance of common stocks in Nigeria. In particular, this study examines the empirical conformity of some finance theories in Nigeria since most of such evidence are based on developed markets and evidence on emerging markets like Nigeria remains scanty. Secondary data, obtained from official sources, were utilized. Employing correlation and regression analyses, this study confirms the Modigliani-Miller (MM) capital structure irrelevance theorem, information content of dividends’ hypothesis, stock returns-systematic factors relation, and inflation-hedging capacity of common stocks. However, the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and Price Earnings (P/E) Ratio- Growth relation lack strong empirical support. The implications of these findings are discussed. For instance, the “irrelevance result” and the “information content result” imply that chief finance officers should devote more effort on investment opportunities rather than seeking for opportunistic financing, and follow liberal dividend distribution policy to satisfy investors’ preference for regular income and resolve perceived uncertainty in the macroeconomy. Common stocks are effective hedgers against expected inflation but poor hedgers against unanticipated inflation which is the more significant component of inflation in Nigeria.

Keywords: Investment Performance, Common Stocks, Modigliani-Miller, Information Content, CAPM

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G12, G14 G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Paseda, Oluseun, The Investment Performance of Common Stocks in Nigeria (December 2006). The Investment Performance of Common Stocks in Nigeria, LAP publishing. GRIN publishing, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2891428 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2891428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
279 References
R N Markellos , T C Mills
Unit Roots in the CAPM?
Applied Economics Letters , volume 8 , p. 499 - 502 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Martin
Time Varying Risk In The German Stock Market Posted: 2000
P Masson
Contagion: Monsoonal Effects, Spillovers, And Jumps Between Multiple Equilibria Posted: 1998
Crossref
E Maug
Large Shareholders as Monitors: Is there a Trade-off Between Liquidity and Control?
Journal of Finance , volume 53 , p. 65 - 98 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,257
RANK
344,140
1 Citations
279 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies