Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Board Characteristics, Audit Committee Independence and Auditor Fees: An Empirical Analysis of Indian Corporate Sector

Posted: 4 Jan 2017

Dr. Rajnish Kumar

Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR)

Date Written: June 1, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of level of corporate governance measured in terms of the board of directors' and the audit committee's characteristics on auditor fees in the Indian corporate sector. In particular, we examine the effect of the board of directors' and the audit committee's independence, diligence, expertise and size on audit fee, non-audit fee and the ratio of non-audit fee to audit fee for the top 100 companies listed on the National Stock Exchange for the financial year 2012-13. We hypothesize that an independent, diligent, experienced and a larger board of directors require higher audit quality and hence higher audit and non-audit fees. However, there is no effect of audit committee's characteristics (independence, diligence, expertise and size) on audit and non-audit fees because of inherent dependence of the audit committee on the board as envisioned by the Companies Act, 2013. The results indicate that an independent board defined as the proportion of independent directors in the board positively affects the audit fee and there is no effect of the audit committee's characteristics on auditor fees. Even after controlling for audit committee's characteristics in the board of directors' model, an independent board and chairperson positively affect the auditor fees.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Auditor Fees

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Kumar, Rajnish, Board Characteristics, Audit Committee Independence and Auditor Fees: An Empirical Analysis of Indian Corporate Sector (June 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2892405
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,412
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies