Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Long-Term Impact of Economic Conditions on Auditors’ Judgment

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2017 Last revised: 3 Oct 2018

Xianjie He

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics - School of Accountancy

S.P. Kothari

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Tusheng Xiao

Central University of Finance and Economics

Luo Zuo

National University of Singapore; National University of Singapore (NUS) - Sustainable & Green Finance Institute (SGFIN)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 25, 2018

Abstract

We find that economic conditions at the time an auditor enters the labor market have a long-term impact on her judgment and decision making. Specifically, engagement partners who started their career during economic downturns issue audit adjustments more frequently. For the subsample of company-years with no audit adjustments, downturn auditors are more likely to issue a modified audit opinion. In addition, companies audited by downturn auditors are less likely to violate financial reporting and disclosure regulations. Together, our findings suggest that early-career stage is a critical formative period for auditors.

Keywords: economic condition; audit adjustment; imprinting

JEL Classification: J24; M42

Suggested Citation:

He, Xianjie and Kothari, S.P. and Xiao, Tusheng and Zuo, Luo, Long-Term Impact of Economic Conditions on Auditors’ Judgment (September 25, 2018). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2892107 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2892107
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
C Ai , E Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics Letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang , M Trombley
Arbitrage risk and the book-to-market anomaly
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 69 , issue 2 , p. 355 - 373 Posted: 2003
Crossref
AICPA)
Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99. AICPA Posted: 2002
A Amir , J Kallunki , H Nilsson
The association between individual audit partners' risk preferences and the composition of their client portfolios
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 133 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
962
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,462
RANK
37,032
4 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies