Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Detection of Earnings Management. Practical Approach.

Pustylnick, I., Temchenko, O., & Gubarkov, S. (2017). Detection of Earnings Management. Practical Approach. Actual Problems of Economics, 193(07-2017), 85-98.

15 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2017 Last revised: 21 Sep 2017

Igor Pustylnick

Far Eastern Federal University; Conestoga College

Date Written: January 4, 2017

Abstract

Many existing earnings management studies establish earnings management detection criteria by examining the statements of every organization under review for a significant period of time. While being suitable for the academia, this approach cannot be adopted by the practitioners, who do not have access to the historical information. The study proposes that the new indicator would be found through examining the existing set of companies and superimposing it to the sets of companies, which should not have the signs of earnings management. Two groups of companies are proposed as candidates for the second samples: companies with high Z-Score and random set of companies. All three samples are examined by using the existing indicators M-Score and fluctuations of operation margin and the conclusion is made that Z-Score is the only indicator, which can easily separate the samples.

This study develops a new indicator of presence of earnings management which is based on the assumption that earnings management is the process of fraudulent altering characteristics of the financial statements related to earning. The idea of the study is based on examining the components of DuPont analysis, namely Operating Margin and Asset Turnover. The results show that the sign and the value of the created indicator matches well the definition of earnings management as appearance of change of Operating Margin and Asset Turnover with different signs. The results of the study were tested on few companies involved in the financial scandals of the turn of the century and showed that earnings management could be detected few years prior to when these companies were charged.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Revenue Manipulations, Beneish, Altman, M-Score, Z-Score, Enron, DuPont Formula

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Pustylnick, Igor, Detection of Earnings Management. Practical Approach. (January 4, 2017). Pustylnick, I., Temchenko, O., & Gubarkov, S. (2017). Detection of Earnings Management. Practical Approach. Actual Problems of Economics, 193(07-2017), 85-98. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2893726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2893726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
642
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,068
RANK
94,625
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies