Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
"Taking Diversity into Account": Real Effects of Accounting Measurement on Asset Allocation

29 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2017 Last revised: 20 May 2018

Gaëtan Le Quang

Université Paris Nanterre and EconomiX (UMR7235)

Date Written: May 15, 2018

Abstract

As soon as 2009, the IASB -- following a request made by the G20 -- begins to work on a new accounting standard meant to replace IAS 39: IFRS 9. Among other things, IFRS 9 puts forward a new way of classifying financial instruments that rests on a two-step procedure: a business model assessment and a contractual cash flow characteristics test. We develop a theoretical model that assesses the relevance of this procedure, specifically that of the business model assessment. We show that a mixed accounting regime where financial institutions whose time horizon is short resort to fair value accounting while those whose time horizon is longer resort to historical cost accounting provides a better asset allocation than a pure accounting regime where all FIs resort to the same accounting rule. In other words, business models are worth being taken into consideration when deciding whether an asset should be evaluated at its fair value or at its historical cost, which is in line with the framework presented in IFRS 9.

Keywords: IFRS 9; Asset Allocation; Real Effects of Accounting; Banks; Insurers

JEL Classification: G11; G21; G22; M41

Suggested Citation:

Le Quang, Gaëtan, "Taking Diversity into Account": Real Effects of Accounting Measurement on Asset Allocation (May 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2894839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2894839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Beatty
FVA: How Fair Is It? Posted: 1995
Anne L. Beatty
Do Accounting Changes Affect the Economic Behaviour of Financial Firms?
BIS Working Paper No. 211 Pages: 32 Posted: 20 Sep 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Beatty , S Liao
Financial Accounting in the Banking Industry: A Review of the Empirical Litterature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 339 - 383 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
923
RANK
576,053
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies