Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Capital Market Mergers in Weak External Market Environment: An Emerging Market Evidence

international Journal of Finance and Economics

33 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2017 Last revised: 18 Aug 2021

Hong Zhang

University of Nottingham, Ningbo

Wei Huang

University of Nottingham Ningbo China

Abhinav Goyal

University of Birmingham; University College Cork

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

Using Chinese Split-Share Structure Reform as backdrop, we study the alternative theories explaining the change in objectives of internal capital markets (ICMs) after regulatory intervention. Focusing on related-party merger and acquisitions, as the primary form of ICM transactions in China, we document significantly positive performance improvement among the acquiring firms around related-party than non-related-party merger and acquisitions in the period following the split-share structure reform. This evidence is particularly stronger among acquirers with lower institutional shareholding. Our findings are invariant to the length of performance evaluation window, matched samples, model specifications, acquirers’ ownership structure and business group affiliations. After controlling for alternative channels of tunnelling and propping, contrary to the popular belief, our findings support the bright-side view of ICMs post-regulatory intervention in an emerging market setup.

Keywords: Internal capital markets,M&A,corporate governance, tunneling,China

JEL Classification: G3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Hong and Huang, Wei and Goyal, Abhinav, Internal Capital Market Mergers in Weak External Market Environment: An Emerging Market Evidence (May 1, 2019). international Journal of Finance and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2894741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
330
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies