Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Between a Rock and a Hard Place: The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Its Global Impact

University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law, Vol. V, No. 4, 1-19, 2007

19 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2017

Paul Lanois

Independent

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

As U.S. corporations progressively move into international markets, many are confronting foreign regulations, which seem to conflict with those governing operations in the U.S, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) is arguably the legislation presenting the most challenges to publicly traded organizations. Sarbanes-Oxley was hurriedly enacted by Congress to restore investor confidence and curb various corporate excesses after the blight of accounting irregularities and financial turmoil which shook the U.S. corporate landscape and eventually engulfed industry heavyweights such as Enron, WorldCom, Global Crossing or Adelphia. Sarbanes-Oxley was described by President Bush as the “most far-reaching reform of American business practices since the time of Franklin Delano Roosevelt.” However, others have been less than thrilled with the heavy burdens imposed by the Act and its extraterritorial impact – that is, when one country imposes its laws on persons operating outside its territory – since this measure is perceived as imposing substantial, and hidden, costs on international commerce and industry, while creating new conflicts between jurisdictions. Although Sarbanes-Oxley was only intended to address domestic concerns, the importance of U.S. capital markets in the global economy unfortunately resulted in the Act possessing international “spill-over” effects.

This note examines how Sarbanes-Oxley fits within the extraterritorial framework of U.S. securities regulation. Part I provides a brief summary of the bases of extraterritorial application of Sarbanes-Oxley and U.S. securities law. Part II explores the territorial reach of previous U.S. securities law to determine whether Sarbanes-Oxley’s extraterritorial scope is really a departure from previous regulations or not. Finally, Part III analyzes the extraterritorial nature of Sarbanes-Oxley and how its scope diverge from traditional securities regulations. This paper concludes that Sarbanes-Oxley does not actually expand the territorial scope of securities law, but that its regulation of corporate governance is a significant departure from traditional methods of securities regulation.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley, Sarbanes, SOX, extraterritorial, securities, regulation, global, capital markets, international, financial markets, foreign, Enron

Suggested Citation:

Lanois, Paul, Between a Rock and a Hard Place: The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Its Global Impact (2007). University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law, Vol. V, No. 4, 1-19, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2894294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
Any significant activity undertaken in this country -or perhaps any activity at all -that furthers a fraudulent scheme can provide the basis of American jurisdiction
Continental Grain (Australia) Pty Ltd. v. Pacific Oilseeds Inc., 592 F.2d , volume 409
Grunenthal GmbH v. Holtz, 712 F
SEC v. Kasser, 548 F.2d 109 (3d Cir. 1977) Posted: 1983
Restatement
at § , volume 45 , issue 1
Crossref
Id
at § , volume 416 , issue 2
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,733
RANK
240,980
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies