Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodbye IFRS: Determinants and Consequences of Dropping International Financial Reporting Standards

Posted: 11 Jan 2017 Last revised: 15 Jul 2017

Justin Chircop

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Christian Stadler

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: July 14, 2017

Abstract

In this study we analyse the determinants and consequences of dropping IFRS. Most Swiss firms listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange and most Chinese firms listed in Hong Kong (H Share companies) use IFRS, but a significant number of these firms have recently opted to drop IFRS. We first analyse the determinants for dropping IFRS and find that less capital market-oriented firms are more likely to drop IFRS. Second, we analyse the effects of dropping IFRS on commonly used accounting quality measures and find some evidence for reduced quality after dropping IFRS. As Swiss GAAP differs more from IFRS than Chinese GAAP does, we expect that accounting quality reduces more in Switzerland than in China, but we do not find evidence for this. Third, we analyse the capital market effects of dropping IFRS and find no evidence of capital market effects of dropping IFRS in either China or Switzerland. The fact that we do not find negative market reactions to dropping IFRS suggests that the decision to drop IFRS does not harm investors.

Keywords: IFRS, accounting quality, international accounting

JEL Classification: K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chircop, Justin and Stadler, Christian, Goodbye IFRS: Determinants and Consequences of Dropping International Financial Reporting Standards (July 14, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2894794 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2894794
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies