Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limits to Nonmarket Insurance: A Textual Analysis of the Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Media Sentiment

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

23 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2017

Abhilash S. Nair

IIM Kozhikode

Suresh Kalagnanam

University of Saskatchewan - Edwards School of Business

Date Written: January 8, 2017

Abstract

Prior research examining the impact of corporate social responsibility (CSR) on stakeholders has largely focused on studying the insurance like effect of CSR outlays and the resulting effect on stock returns, thereby emphasizing the implications for shareholders. Our study examines the following research question: “Do secondary stakeholders perceive the nonmarket insurance effect potentially arising out of a company’s CSR activities in the face of integrity-based negative events?” We use the notion of nonmarket insurance (Arnott & Stiglitz, 1991) to hypothesize a negative relationship between the net-negative sentiment score and investments in CSR. In addition, we predict inverse relationships between the sentiment score and several firm characteristics.

Our study focuses on the effects of two of the largest scams in India, the 2G Scam and the Coal Scam, on 13 publicly listed companies (six in the case of one scam and seven in the case of the other). We use text analysis to compute a sentiment score from a total of 9,339 media reports over a seven-year period (2010-14 for the 2G scam and 2012-16 for the coal scam). Our results report a positive relationship between CSR outlays and (net) negative sentiment score, which contradicts the hypothesized inverse relationship and therefore the presence of nonmarket insurance effect, particularly in the context of integrity-based negative events. This suggests that CSR, in the context of our study, does not have the potential to offset the negative reputation accrued as a result of involvement in the scams.

Keywords: Sentiment analysis, Nonmarket insurance, CSR investment, Integrity-based events

Suggested Citation:

Nair, Abhilash Sreekumar and Kalagnanam, Suresh S., Limits to Nonmarket Insurance: A Textual Analysis of the Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility on Media Sentiment (January 8, 2017). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2895823 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2895823
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
R Arnott , J E Stiglitz
Moral hazard and nonmarket institutions: Dysfunctional crowding out of peer monitoring?
The American Economic Review , volume 81 , p. 179 - 190 Posted: 1991
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 61 , p. 1645 - 1680 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Baker , J Wurgler
Investor sentiment in the stock market
The Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 21 , p. 129 - 151 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Banz
The relationship between return and market value of common stocks
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 9 , p. 3 - 18 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
477
RANK
906,046
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies