Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Management and Efficiency of SMEs in the Province of Nakorn Nayok

8 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2017

Wanwisa Nonpanya

St. Theresa International College

Tanawadee Kangnoi

St. Theresa International College

Jutarat Kosiri

St. Theresa International College

Thitima Permsangsuwan

St. Theresa International College

Kawita Tipajatuporn

St. Theresa International College

Date Written: January 9, 2017

Abstract

The purpose of studying the accounting management and efficiency of SMEs in the province of Nakorn Nayok, is to study the levels of accounting management and efficiency in managing the business, and to find the correlation between the accounting management and the efficiency of SMEs in Nakorn Nayok province. The model group consisted of 175 managers of the industrial plants SMEs in Nakorn Nayok. Tools used in this study are questionnaires. Statistic is by mean, t-Test, Pearson’s simple correlation moment. It is found that the level of accounting management and the efficiency of managing SMEs in Nakorn Nayok province, is at a medium level. It is also found that the correlation between the accounting management and the efficiency in managing the business is at a low level with statistic significant at .01 and correlation coefficient at .496.

Keywords: Accounting Management, Efficiency in Managing the Business, Balanced Scorecard(BSC), SMEs

Suggested Citation:

Nonpanya, Wanwisa and Kangnoi, Tanawadee and Kosiri, Jutarat and Permsangsuwan, Thitima and Tipajatuporn, Kawita, Accounting Management and Efficiency of SMEs in the Province of Nakorn Nayok (January 9, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2895897 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2895897
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Apinya Wisetsingh
Quality of Accounting Information which has an effect to the performance of an accountant and to the evaluation of work of an accopuntant. Thesis, Master's Degree Business Administration Posted: 2009
Boonruay Napao
Competencies based on international education standards for professional accountants and their working efficiency: A case study of SMEs accountant in Nonthaburi province
Business Administration Academic Journal , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2013-07
R S Kaplan
The Balanced Scorecard: Translating Strategy into Action. President and Fellows of Harvard College Posted: 1996
Kemporn Soommart
Knowledge and ability of an accountant, affecting to the performance of an accountant of SMEs in the province of Galasin. Faculty of Social Technology, Galasin campus, Rajchamonkol Esan Technology University Supamitr Pinitkarn (2009) The Correlation between the Main Ability and Performance of Work of an Accountant
The effect of ability of an organization and the environment outside the organization, which has an effect to the pressure and performance of the work of an accountant of real estate business on the Northeastern region of Thailand. Thesis, Accountant Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,267
RANK
805,600
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies