Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CEO Retirement, Corporate Governance and Conditional Accounting Conservatism

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2017

Shimin Chen

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS)

Serene Xu Ni

The SHU-UTS SILC Business School, Shanghai University; University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Feida Zhang

China Europe International Business School (CEIBS); University of Queensland - Accounting and Accountability

Date Written: December 2016

Abstract

Based on 16,604 observations between 1994 and 2006, this study revisits the “horizon problem” by examining how CEO retirement affects conditional accounting conservatism. We hypothesize and find that firms become less conservative in their financial reporting before the retirement of their CEOs, and that strong corporate governance mitigates the effect of CEO retirement. The literature concerning the horizon problem has suggested that CEOs manipulate earnings to boost short-term performance before they leave their companies (Dechow and Sloan, 1991; Smith and Watts, 1982), but the evidence is mixed. By examining conditional conservatism, we avoid some of the methodological difficulties that confront researchers when examining either real or accrual earnings management. Ours is the first study to provide evidence on how the horizon problem shapes conditional accounting conservatism.

Keywords: Horizon Problem, Conservatism, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shimin and Ni, Xu and Zhang, Feida, CEO Retirement, Corporate Governance and Conditional Accounting Conservatism (December 2016). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2895277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 90 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 411 - 448 Posted: 2007
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , V V Nikolaev
Econometrics of the Basu asymmetric timeliness coefficient and accounting conservatism
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 5 , p. 1071 - 97 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,946
RANK
229,982
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies