Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banking Supervision and External Auditors: What Works Best?

BAFFI CAREFIN Centre Research Paper No. 2017-46

33 Pages Posted: 3 May 2017

Donato Masciandaro

Bocconi University - Department of Economics; Bocconi University - Department of Economics (ECO)

Davide Romelli

Trinity College (Dublin) - Department of Economics; Trinity College (Dublin)

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

What are the pros and cons of involving external auditors in banking supervision? This paper investigates the relationship between banking supervision and the involvement of external auditors from a theoretical and empirical perspective. We first provide a simple principal-agent framework that highlights the importance of several country-specific institutional characteristics in determining an optimal level of involvement of external auditors in banking supervision. We then propose a new index that captures the degree of involvement of external auditors in financial sector supervision. We construct this index for a broad set of 142 countries and show that countries characterized by higher levels of auditor involvement in supervision are less likely to experience a financial crisis. These results provide new and original empirical evidence on the link between regulatory and supervisory institutional designs and the probability of financial distress.

Keywords: Banking Supervision, Auditing, Delegation, Economics and Law

JEL Classification: G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Masciandaro, Donato and Romelli, Davide, Banking Supervision and External Auditors: What Works Best? (December 1, 2016). BAFFI CAREFIN Centre Research Paper No. 2017-46, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2895999 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2895999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,910
RANK
302,262
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

BAFFI Centre on Economics, Finance & Regulation Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies