Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Differences in CFO Background Matter to Financial Statement Quality? An Application of Machine Learning and Textual Analytics

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

38 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2017 Last revised: 16 Mar 2017

B. Louise Hayes

University of Guelph - Gordon S. Lang School of Business and Economics

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 11, 2017

Abstract

Using machine learning, we classify the audit experience, finance experience and accounting education of chief financial officers (CFOs) of S&P 1500 companies for the period 2006-2015. We find that companies with CFOs with audit (finance) experience have a lower (greater) likelihood of restatement relative to companies with CFOs without audit (finance) experience and that an accounting education without audit experience is not associated with the likelihood of restatement. This study develops an automated, labour-saving, transparent, replicable, and scalable text analytics approach to classifying CFOs based on machine learning that can be used in future research.

Keywords: chief financial officers, textual analytics, machine learning

Suggested Citation:

Hayes, B. Louise and Boritz, Efrim, Do Differences in CFO Background Matter to Financial Statement Quality? An Application of Machine Learning and Textual Analytics (January 11, 2017). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2897829 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2897829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Agrawal , J Goldie , B Huyett
Today's CFO: Which profile best suits your company?
McKinsey & Company. Accessed online February Posted: 2013
J K Aier , J Comprix , M T Gunlock , D Lee
The Financial Expertise of CFOs and Accounting Restatements
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 123 - 135 Posted: 2005
H Brown-Liburd , M A Vasarhelyi
Editorial: Big Data and Audit Evidence
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 12 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2015
J J Burks
Disciplinary measures in response to restatements after Sarbanes-Oxley
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 195 - 225 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
278
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies