Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Compliance Consequences of Fault Assignment and Sanction Strength in Sanctions

Behavioral Research in Accounting, 2023, Vol. 35 (2) pp 131-152

36 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2017 Last revised: 29 Feb 2024

Matthew Sooy

Western University, Canada; University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

Date Written: June 15, 2021

Abstract

Regulators rely heavily on ‘no-fault’ settlements in their enforcement, where targets avoid costly litigation by accepting sanctions without admitting or denying fault. Considerable public debate surrounds the issue but prior research has typically focused on financial dimensions of sanctions such as the magnitude of fines. I conduct an economic experiment where individuals face a costly compliance choice in the presence of sanctions that may either be greater than or less than the benefits of violating, and may also require admission of fault. I observe that compliance is less dependent on the magnitude of fines when fault is assigned in enforcement. I also observe that fault-based compliance is of higher quality. In supplemental analysis, I confirm that participants respond to fault incrementally to economic dimensions of sanctions and observe that participants incorrectly expect that sanction strength, rather than sanction magnitude, will foster greater compliance quality.

Keywords: Fault, Sanctions, SEC, Enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Sooy, Matthew Thomas, The Compliance Consequences of Fault Assignment and Sanction Strength in Sanctions (June 15, 2021). Behavioral Research in Accounting, 2023, Vol. 35 (2) pp 131-152, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2897159 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2897159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
References
M Agranov , A Buyalskaya
Deterrence Effects of Enforcement Schemes: An Experimental Study. Management Science Posted: 2021
A Ackerman , C Rexrode
SEC Splits on BofA Business Curbs; 'Bad Actor' Waivers Deadlock Regulator
Wall Street Journal Posted: 2014-10-27
D Balliet , N P Li , S J Macfarlan , M Van Vugt
Sex differences in cooperation: a meta-analytic review of social dilemmas
Psychological bulletin , volume 137 , issue 6 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,099
RANK
658,366
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies