Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Locally-Based Independent Directors Reduce Corporate Misconduct?

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

50 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2017 Last revised: 30 Apr 2017

Claire Deng

York University, Schulich School of Business

Kiridaran (Giri) Kanagaretnam

York University - Schulich School of Business

Zejiang Zhou

Anhui University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 24, 2017

Abstract

This paper explores the influence of geographic, social and cultural proximity of independent directors on reducing Chinese listed firms’ fraudulent and noncompliant practices. Our choice of using local versus non-local independent directors as a focus of study is motivated by the relevance of geographic proximity in the prior literature on auditing, analysts’ reporting, and institutional investing. Through the analyses of A-share listed firms in China between 2007 and 2013, we find that local independent directors reduce both the frequency and magnitude of the misconduct in listed firms. Furthermore, we find that political connections of independent directors reduce the effect of local independent directors’ monitoring function, whereas the higher ratio of female independent directors enhances the monitoring effect. Our findings have the following policy implications: 1) geographic, social and cultural proximity should be considered when hiring independent directors because local directors have the potential to improve corporate governance; 2) political connections should be controlled in order to limit their negative effect on the performance of independent directors; 3) Gender diversity should be promoted when hiring local independent directors. We contribute to the literature on corporate governance by introducing the relevance of geographic, social and cultural proximity to corporate misconduct through corporate governance and highlighting the moderating effect of political connections and gender diversity.

Keywords: CCorporate governance; Independent directors; Locally-based directors; Misconduct; Political connections; Gender diversity.

JEL Classification: M41; M48; G34

Suggested Citation:

Deng, Claire and Kanagaretnam, Kiridaran and Zhou, Zejiang, Do Locally-Based Independent Directors Reduce Corporate Misconduct? (April 24, 2017). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2897914 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2897914
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
P S Adler , S W Kwon
Social capital: prospects for a new concept
Academy of Management Review , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Agrawal , D Kapur , J Mchale
How do spatial and social proximity influence knowledge flows? Evidence from patent data
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 64 , issue 2 , p. 258 - 269 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Zinat S Alam , Mark A Chen , Conrad S Ciccotello , Harley E Ryan
Board Structure Mandates: Consequences for Director Location and Financial Reporting
Management Science
Crossref
V Albino , N Carbonara , A M Petruzzelli
Proximity as a communication resource for competitiveness: a rationale for technology clusters
International Journal of Learning and Intellectual Capital , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 430 - 452 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,747
RANK
240,099
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies