Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
You Blinked: The Role and Incentives of Managers in Increasing Corporate Risks Following the Inception of Credit Default Swap Trade

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

65 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2017 Last revised: 22 May 2017

Hyun A. Hong

University of California, Riverside (UCR) - A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management

Jiwoo Ryou

West Virginia University

Anup Srivastava

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 12, 2017

Abstract

Prior studies show that a lender’s incentive to monitor a client’s activities declines after receiving insurance on its loan via a credit default swap (CDS). We examine whether this altered debtor-creditor relation affects borrowers’ investment activities. We hypothesize that the borrower enhances activities that were previously constrained by lender monitoring. It shifts from safe to risky assets to increase the value of call options built into shareholder investments. We do not find support, on average, for this proposition. However, when managers’ wealth increases convexly with firm assets, borrowers increase risky investments and dividend payouts after the onset of CDS trading.

Keywords: Credit default swap (CDS), Agency conflict, Managerial compensation, Operating risks, Investment policy

JEL Classification: G32, G33, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hong, Hyun A. and Ryou, Jiwoo and Srivastava, Anup, You Blinked: The Role and Incentives of Managers in Increasing Corporate Risks Following the Inception of Credit Default Swap Trade (March 12, 2017). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2898987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2898987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
V V Acharya , Y Amihud , L Litov
Creditor rights and corporate risk taking
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 102 , issue 1 , p. 150 - 166 Posted: 2011
Crossref
V V Acharya , K V Subramanian
Bankruptcy codes and innovation
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , p. 4949 - 4988 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Aggarwal , A Samwick
The other side of the trade-off: the impact of risk on executive compensation
Journal of Political Economy , volume 107 , p. 65 - 105 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,692
RANK
199,490
1 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies