Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and the Level of Compliance with International Accounting Standards (IAS-1): Evidence from Bahrain Bourse

International Research Journal of Finance and Economics, Issue 157, 2016

13 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2017

Abdalmuttaleb Musleh Al-Sartawi

Ahlia University

Fatema Alrawahi

Ahlia University

Zakeya Sanad

Ahlia University

Date Written: December 20, 2016

Abstract

Harmonization of financial reporting standards reduces information asymmetry and improves the confidence of users of financial information while making decisions .Similarly, corporate governance enhances the transparency of financial information through reducing agency conflicts. Moreover, in order to increase the confidence of investors, attract prospective investors and reduce conflict of interests, Bahrain encourages firms to adhere to both the International Financial Reporting Standards and Bahrain’s Code of Corporate Governance. Accordingly, the purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationship between corporate governance and the level of compliance by 39 firms listed on Bahrain Bourse with International Accounting Standards (IAS-1). The results indicate that the level of corporate governance applied in Bahrain listed companies was 72.5% and it has a significant relationship with the level of compliance with IAS-1 disclosure. The findings and recommendations presented in this study might support regulatory bodies and standard setters in Bahrain to formulate strategies that would promote compliance with IFRSs by the listed firms. Additionally, the study contributes to financial reporting literature relating to the GCC countries.

Keywords: Harmonization, Corporate Governance Level, Compliance, IFRS, Bahrain

Suggested Citation:

Musleh Al-Sartawi, Abdalmuttaleb and Alrawahi, Fatema and Sanad, Zakeya, Corporate Governance and the Level of Compliance with International Accounting Standards (IAS-1): Evidence from Bahrain Bourse (December 20, 2016). International Research Journal of Finance and Economics, Issue 157, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2898145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The Association between Outside Directors, Institutional Investors and the Properties of Management Earnings Forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Alfaraih
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Value relevance of Accounting Information in Emerging Stock Markets: Evidence from Kuwait (Doctoral dissertation Posted: 2009
M Alfraih
The Effectiveness of Board of Directors' Characteristics in Mandatory Disclosure Compliance
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 154 - 176 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
556
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,894
RANK
113,793
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies