Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Legislation, Corporate Governance Codes and Disclosure in Jordan: A Review

International Journal of Law and Management Vol. 59(1): Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2017 Last revised: 5 Jul 2017

Ayman E. Haddad

American University of Kuwait

Wafaa Sbeiti

The American University of Kuwait

Amer Qasim

Al Ain University of Science & Technology

Date Written: January 15, 2017

Abstract

Purpose – The main aim of this paper is to provide an overview of the most influential economic changes and accounting legislation affecting financial reporting and disclosure practices in Jordan. It also provides an overview of disclosure studies conducted in Jordan covering the year(s) between 1986 and 2014 to investigate whether there is an improvement in disclosure practice in Jordan. This paper also investigates the most influential firm characteristics affecting disclosure practices in Jordan found in prior disclosure studies that were conducted in Jordan between 1986 and 2014. The paper also addresses the disclosure items required in Corporate Governance Codes that exist for listed shareholding companies, banks and insurance companies. Finally, the paper discusses the quality of accounting education in Jordan, as prior studies noted its impact on accounting practice.

Design/methodology/approach – Based on a review of prior disclosure studies conducted in Jordan between 1986 and 2014, this study compared the results of disclosure studies before and after 1998. In 1997, Jordan, as a result of economic changes, issued the Temporary Securities Law and its Directives of Disclosure, which came into effect in 1998. The law is considered as the turning point in the improvement of disclosure practice in Jordan. A trend line of disclosure practice is also used to investigate whether disclosure practice is improved after the issuance of this law. A descriptive analysis is also used to examine the factors affecting disclosure practice in Jordan.

Findings – Based on a review of prior disclosure studies, it was concluded that disclosure practices have improved overtime. It was also observed that that firm size as a factor has always affected the level of disclosure in Jordan and is followed by external auditing, while liquidity is found to have the least effect. It was concluded that economic changes, agreement with international organizations like the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), new regulations and financial market reforms have improved disclosure practice in Jordan. It was also found that there is a need for further studies in disclosure practice that are not sufficiently covered in Jordan.

Originality/value – The study is based on a review of disclosure studies conducted in Jordan between 1986 and 2014. We investigate whether mandatory, voluntary, corporate social and internet disclosure practice improved over the last three decades in Jordan. This study is the first to provide evidence on the improvement of disclosure practices based on a review of disclosure studies in Jordan. The paper is expected to be a reference for disclosure studies in developing countries, Jordan in particular, as it summarized and criticized the weaknesses on disclosure practice and accounting legislations in Jordan.

Keywords: Jordan, Corporate Governance, Accounting legislation, Disclosure practice

JEL Classification: F15, J20, K40, M41, M48, O16

Suggested Citation:

Haddad, Ayman E. and Sbeiti, Wafaa and Qasim, Amer, Accounting Legislation, Corporate Governance Codes and Disclosure in Jordan: A Review (January 15, 2017). International Journal of Law and Management Vol. 59(1): Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2899677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
The seven of the Higher Council named by the Law are: the Minister of Finance
JACPA has the power to impose sanctions upon members for fraud, neglect and malpractice including: admonition, warning, suspension or termination
The income tax contribution to domestic revenues increased from 11.6 per cent in 1996 (Haddad, 1999) to 14.6 per cent in 2012 Posted: 2012
It is 7 per cent on the first JOD 10,000; 14 per cent on amounts between JOD 10,001 and 20,000; and 20 per cent for any amount above JOD 20,000 of taxable income. However, Jordanian Income Tax is levied on companies between 14 and 35 per cent. Foreign employees working for non-operating foreign companies
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,520
RANK
627,127
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies