Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants and Pricing of Liquidity Commonality around the World

Journal of Financial Markets, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2017

Fariborz Moshirian

Institute of Global Finance, UNSW Business School

Xiaolin Qian

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Claudia Koon Ghee Wee

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - Australian School of Business, Banking & Finance

Bohui Zhang

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen

Date Written: December 10, 2016

Abstract

This paper examines the determinants and pricing of liquidity commonality using intraday data from 39 markets over 15 years. We show that liquidity commonality is driven by both market-level and firm-level factors. Liquidity commonality is higher in weaker and more-volatile economic and financial environments, in areas with poor investor protection, and in opaque information environments. Liquidity commonality is also affected by cultural and behavioral factors, including individualism and uncertainty avoidance. Moreover, we find that liquidity commonality is priced in the world’s stock markets and that the pricing effect is stronger in developed markets.

Keywords: Liquidity Commonality; Pricing of Liquidity; International Financial Markets

JEL Classification: G11, G12, G15

Suggested Citation:

Moshirian, Fariborz and Qian, Xiaolin and Wee, Claudia Koon Ghee and Zhang, Bohui, The Determinants and Pricing of Liquidity Commonality around the World (December 10, 2016). Journal of Financial Markets, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2899349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
J Ohlson
Earnings, Book Values, and Dividends in Equity Valuation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 11 , p. 661 - 687 Posted: 1995
Crossref
J Ohlson , B Juettner-Nauroth
Expected EPS and SPE Growth as Determinants of Value
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 10 , p. 349 - 365 Posted: 2005
Crossref
L Pastor , R F Stambaugh
Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns
Journal of Political Economy , volume 111 , p. 642 - 685 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Roll
R 2 . The Journal of Finance , volume 43 , p. 541 - 566 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,066
RANK
266,546
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies