Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
China’s Anti-Corruption Campaign and Financial Reporting Quality

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2899403

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2017-56

54 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2017 Last revised: 2 Jun 2019

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Heng Yue

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Qinlin Zhong

Fudan University-the School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 30, 2019

Abstract

We examine the impact of China’s anti-corruption campaign on firm-level financial reporting quality (FRQ). As an important component of the anti-corruption campaign, in October 2013, “Rule 18” was issued to prohibit party and government officials from serving as directors for publicly listed firms. The regulation led to a large number of official directors resigning from their roles as directors involuntarily. As such, Rule 18 has effectively weakened, if not fully discontinued, the political connections of the firms that previously hired officials as directors. Our empirical analyses employ a difference-in-differences research design with firm fixed effects and PSM to examine the pre- and post- period FRQ around the enactment of Rule 18. We find that, compared to propensity-score-matched control firms, FRQ of firms with resigned official director increases after Rule 18. Further evidence suggests that the impact is stronger when firms are located in regions with more developed financial markets and in regions with higher judiciary efficiency. We also find that the effect is more pronounced when firms are non-state-owned, received preferential credits, and face refinancing pressure.

Keywords: Anti-Corruption Campaign, Political Connections, Accounting Quality, China, Causal Effects,Quasi Experiment

JEL Classification: G30, G32, G38, M10, M41, M48, N25, N45

Suggested Citation:

Hope, Ole-Kristian and Yue, Heng and Zhong, Qinlin, China’s Anti-Corruption Campaign and Financial Reporting Quality (May 30, 2019). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2899403, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2017-56, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2899403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2899403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,602
RANK
29,186
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies