Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Bank Performance: Experience with Ten Asian Countries

39 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2017

Amina Sobhy

German University in Cairo

K. A. Mohamed Ehab

The German University in Cairo

Mostaq M. Hussain

UNBSJ

Date Written: January 16, 2017

Abstract

The objective of this paper is to examine the relationship between corporate governance and Bank performance in Asia. The study is carried on two hundred and twenty six banks during the period of 2009-2013 in ten Asian countries. Regression results show that (in Model 1) audit committee has a negative relationship with performance measured by ROA, this demonstrates a very inconsistent result with previous studies. There is also a negative relationship with board independence on performance measured by ROA and this is consistent with the stewardship theory - a positive relationship with Director Ownership, bank size, bank type and leverage on performance measured by ROA. The effect of corporate governance on banking performance measured by ROE (Model 2 shows) demonstrates that there is a negative relationship with Audit committee, board independence and ownership concentration on performance measured by ROE. There is also a negative relation with duality on performance measured by ROE, which is consistent with Agency theory, and a positive relationship with director ownership on performance measured by ROE. The effect of corporate governance on banking performance measured by NIM. This study finds that (Model 3), there is a negative relationship with remuneration committee on performance measured by NIM, and this result is very inconsistent with previous literature. A positive relationship with board meeting on performance measured by NIM is found in this study, and this is consistent with the Agency theory and a positive relation with duality on performance measured by NIM but this again consistent with stewardship theory. According to some new findings of this study, some research directions are given at the end of this paper.

Keywords: Board Characteristics, Ownership Structure, Corporate Governance, Bank Performance, Asia

JEL Classification: G21, M14, N25

Suggested Citation:

Sobhy, Amina and Ehab, K. A. Mohamed and Hussain, Mostaq M., Corporate Governance and Bank Performance: Experience with Ten Asian Countries (January 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2900333 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2900333
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
123 References
R B Adams , P Funk
Beyond the glass ceiling: Does gender matter? Management Science , volume 58 , p. 219 - 235 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Agrawal , R Knoeber , C
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S Akhtar , J B Maryam , H Sadia
Relationship between Financial Leverage and Financial Performance: Evidence from Fuel and Energy Sector of Pakistan
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 4 , issue 11 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2012
M Al-Musalli , K N I K Ismail
Corporate governance, bank specific characteristics, banking industry characteristics, and intellectual capital (ic) performance of banks in Arab gulf cooperation council (gcc) countries
Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 8 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 115 - 134 Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
В.І. Рудевська , Я. В. Хлань
ПІДХОДИ ДО КОМПОЗИЦІЇ НАГЛЯДОВИХ РАД КОМЕРЦІЙНИХ БАНКІВ В УКРАЇНІ В КОНТЕКСТІ ПІДВИЩЕННЯ ЕФЕКТИВНОСТІ ЇХ ДІЯЛЬНОСТІ
Financial and credit activity problems of theory and practice , volume 3 , issue 34 , p. 32 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,596
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,623
RANK
26,487
1 Citations
123 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies