Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Accounting Restatements Foreshadowed by Changes in Accounting Estimates?

2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

38 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2017 Last revised: 11 Mar 2017

Philip Beaulieu

University of Calgary

B. Louise Hayes

University of Guelph - Gordon S. Lang School of Business and Economics

Lev Timoshenko

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Date Written: January 15, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between changes in accounting estimates and subsequent financial restatements. Theory suggests that depending on the underlying reason for an estimate change, this relationship can be either negative (for changes in estimates made in response to new developments or management having obtaining new information) or positive (for changes in accounting estimates made with an objective of managing earnings or changes that are not reliably estimated and are poorly audited). We hypothesize and find a positive relationship between changes in estimates and restatements, except for small loss companies, where the relationship is negative. There is also marginal support for the prediction that the presence of a change in accounting estimate(s) is associated with an increased likelihood of subsequent restatement to correct intentional misstatement. The findings of the study are of interest to accounting academics, regulators, and audit practitioners.

Keywords: Changes in Accounting Estimates, Financial Restatements, Financial Reporting Quality

Suggested Citation:

Beaulieu, Philip and Hayes, B. Louise and Timoshenko, Lev, Are Accounting Restatements Foreshadowed by Changes in Accounting Estimates? (January 15, 2017). 2017 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2900009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2900009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
*No observations in fiscal year 2016 since company-years with non-December year ends are excluded References
S M Albring , S X Huang , R Pereira , X Xu
The effects of accounting restatements on firm growth
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 32 , p. 357 - 376 Posted: 2013
Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair Value Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures. AU-C Section 540 Posted: 2011
D Aobdia
The Validity of Publicly Available Measures of Audit Quality. Evidence from the PCAOB Inspection Data. Working paper PCAOB Center for Economic Analysis and Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
263
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies