Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Banking Reforms, Risk Governance and Performance: A Natural Experiment for Study of Bank-Firm Relationship in India

Posted: 18 Jan 2017

Pankaj Gupta

Indian Institute of Management Indore

Date Written: January 17, 2017

Abstract

The evidence that risk governance predicts market value of banks is very limited in the Indian context. Also, the bank – firm relationship is in news in recent. We present evidence that banking reforms activities made the large banks more profitable as compared to small banks. In this study of the banking reforms, we show that large banks who has the high amount of diversion of cash to related parties earn positive returns, relative to mid-sized banks. Our results confirm that this diversion of resources to related parties promotes the loans to the firms which are involved in the diversion of resources and default in future and this way hitting the public investors both ways. The bank-firm relationship is a closed structure which we have tried to explain in this study. A battery of regression tests show that better risk governance by banks mediates the negative effect of related party transactions on value and the sensitivity of bank profitability differs between industries. Our main research question is to study and analyze the governance reforms effect on risk taking abilities of banks, and, the expropriating behavior of firms through its relationship with banks. Primarily, banks in close relationship with board members of group affiliated firms are more involve in expropriating behavior through investment in low-yield projects and have the high amount of cash diverted to its related parties. As part of consequence, such firms expropriates investors which finally, turns up into the writing off loans to such project. This effect in aggregate has value effect on banks as well as firms. To measure the propensity of banks to misbehave an index called, “Banks misbehavior risk index (BMRI)” is developed. We detect a list of proxies through network structure to differentiate the expropriating behavior of group affiliated firms. We first conduct an event study of the key banking reform events for risk management by the banks, and investigate whether market views these reforms as limiting the possible misbehavior in near future. An event study is conducted to analyze the returns effect of banks on firms with the close association. Next, we study the effect of governance reform on the expropriating behavior of banks and firms in association with banks.

Keywords: Banking reforms, Risk Governance, Bank-Firm relationship, Banks Misbehavior, Risk Index, Bank Performance

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Pankaj, Banking Reforms, Risk Governance and Performance: A Natural Experiment for Study of Bank-Firm Relationship in India (January 17, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2900684
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,166
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies