Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Reexamination of Investors’ Reaction to Tax Shelter News: Evidence from the Luxembourg Tax Leaks

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2017 Last revised: 2 Aug 2022

Wayne L. Nesbitt

Michigan State University, Eli Broad College of Business

Edmund Outslay

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Anh Persson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Gies College of Business - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: July 31, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the stock market reaction to the unprecedented leaks of confidential advance tax rulings between Luxembourg and multinational corporations—also known as the “LuxLeaks.” Contrary to the negative market reaction to tax shelter news documented in prior research, we find that investors responded positively to these leaks. This reaction is concentrated among U.S. firms. Furthermore, we document a positive association between abnormal returns and the reduction in firms’ tax uncertainty, consistent with a downward revision in investors’ perception of the tax uncertainty associated with the firms’ Luxembourg operations. We also investigate other firm characteristics and find that, among U.S. firms, investors’ reaction is weaker for those over-invested in tax avoidance. Among non-U.S. firms, the market response is muted by concerns about the quality of governance. In summary, our results suggest that investors’ reaction to tax shelter news is conditional on their reassessment of the firms’ tax uncertainty.

Keywords: Luxembourg Tax Leaks, Tax Risk, Tax Avoidance, Event Study

JEL Classification: H25, G30

Suggested Citation:

Nesbitt, Wayne L. and Outslay, Edmund and Persson, Anh, A Reexamination of Investors’ Reaction to Tax Shelter News: Evidence from the Luxembourg Tax Leaks (July 31, 2022). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2901143 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2901143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
R Aggarwal , I Erel , M Ferreira , P Matos
Does governance travel around the world? Evidence from institutional investors
J. Finan. Econ , volume 100 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 181 Posted: 2011
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
J. Acc. Econ , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D F Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
J. Acc. Econ , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
A Babkin , B Glover , O Levine
Are corporate inversions good for shareholders?
J. Finan. Econ , volume 126 , issue 2 , p. 227 - 251 Posted: 2017
Load more
11 Citations
Jolanta Olender , Georgina Fry , Sigrid Robinson , Sara Anicic , Kath Hall
Thinking Big: Student Led Research on the World's Largest Global Corporations
28 Pages · Posted: 19 Dec 2015 · Downloads: 71
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Paul Demeré , Michael P. Donohoe , Petro Lisowsky
The Economic Effects of Special Purpose Entities on Corporate Tax Avoidance
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 1562 Posted: 2020
Crossref
SCOTT D. DYRENG , JEFFREY L. HOOPES , PATRICK LANGETIEG , JARON H. WILDE
Strategic Subsidiary Disclosure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 643 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Niklas Lampenius , Terry Shevlin , Arthur Stenzel
Measuring Corporate Tax Rate and Tax Base Avoidance of U.S.Domestic and U.S. Multinational Firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , p. 101406 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,045
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,052
RANK
49,287
11 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies