Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Ethics on Accounting

13 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2017 Last revised: 22 Jan 2017

Yaghoub Aghdam Mazraeh

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Soofian Branch

Haniyeh Karimzadeh

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Accounting Department

Date Written: January 18, 2017

Abstract

This examination investigated the accounting and its ability in attracting the public self-esteem directly is depended on accepting the professional disciplines on several important topics related to ethics and the accounting profession. The defrauding accounting activities state the ethical values’ weakness govern the accounting working and education. Therefore, accounting training system for training the ethical accountant has been being instituted among the accountants since this issue will leads to increase the public trust, efficiency toward the accountants. Through the current research, the role of ethic on solving the accounting training system and professional rules of accounting which is in base of mind and metallization were explained by libraries method and by exploring the websites. The mentioned issue will cause to solve the complicated accounting problems among the companies’ accountants.

Keywords: Accountant, Ethic, Accounting Training, Business, Ethical Disciplines

Suggested Citation:

Mazraeh, Yaghoub Aghdam and Karimzadeh, Haniyeh, The Role of Ethics on Accounting (January 18, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2901664 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2901664
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Code ofProfessional Conduct. AICPA <http:www.aicpa.org> Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Ballantine , P Mccourt
The Impact of Ethical Orientation and Gender on Final Year Undergraduate Auditing Students
Ethical Judgments. Accounting Education: an international journal , volume 20 , issue 20 , p. 187 - 201 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Beekun , J ( Badawi
Balancing ethical responsibility among multiple organizational stakeholders: The Islamic perspective
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 60 , p. 131 - 145 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Martin T Biegelman , Joel T Bartow
Executive Roadmap to Fraud Prevention and Internal Control: Creating a Culture of Compliance Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,675
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,017
RANK
24,540
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies