Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Governance on Sustainability Reporting: Empirical Study in the Australian Resources Industry

8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017

20 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2017

Tricia Ong

School of Business and Law, Edith Cowan University

Hadrian G. Djajadikerta

Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law

Date Written: January 20, 2017

Abstract

This empirical study evaluates the impact of corporate governance on sustainability reporting by investigating companies operating in the Australia’s resources industry. Specifically, this study investigates the relationships between the total disclosures and, separately, the three aspects of sustainability disclosures - economic, environmental and social - and various attributes of board composition, including independent directors, multiple directorship, and women directors. Significant positive correlations were found between sustainability disclosures and the proportion of independent directors, multiple directorships and women directors on the board. Companies without CEO duality and those with a sustainability committee disclosed more sustainability information. These results provide empirical evidence to support that companies with greater board diversity that promotes more effective corporate governance are providing greater extent of sustainability disclosures.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Sustainability reporting, Resources industry, Australia, Hard and soft disclosures

JEL Classification: G34,M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ong, Tricia and Djajadikerta, Hadrian G., Impact of Corporate Governance on Sustainability Reporting: Empirical Study in the Australian Resources Industry (January 20, 2017). 8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2902495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,601
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,577
RANK
26,322
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies