Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Do Boards Exist? Governance Design in the Absence of Corporate Law

Swedish House of Finance Research Paper No. 17-8

12th Annual Mid-Atlantic Research Conference in Finance (MARC)

2nd Annual Financial Institutions, Regulation and Corporate Governance Conference

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 504/2017

75 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2017 Last revised: 18 Aug 2021

Mike Burkart

Swedish House of Finance; London School of Economics and Political Science, Department of Finance; Finance Theory Group (FTG); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Salvatore Miglietta

BI Norwegian Business School, Department of Finance

Charlotte Ostergaard

Copenhagen Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Danish Finance Institute

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 14, 2021

Abstract

We study when firms choose to install boards and their roles in a historical setting where neither boards nor their duties are mandated by law. Boards arise in firms with large, heterogenous shareholder bases. We propose that an important role of boards is to mediate between heterogenous shareholders with divergent interests. Voting restrictions are common and ensure that boards are representative and not captured by large blockholders. Boards are given significant powers to both mediate and monitor management, and these roles are intrinsically linked.

Keywords: Board roles, mediation, conflicts of interest, ownership structure, voting, authority

JEL Classification: G3, D23, K2, N80.

Suggested Citation:

Burkart, Mike C. and Miglietta, Salvatore and Ostergaard, Charlotte, Why Do Boards Exist? Governance Design in the Absence of Corporate Law (July 14, 2021). Swedish House of Finance Research Paper No. 17-8, 12th Annual Mid-Atlantic Research Conference in Finance (MARC), 2nd Annual Financial Institutions, Regulation and Corporate Governance Conference, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 504/2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2902617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2902617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Espen B Eckbo , Savita Verma
Managerial shareownership, voting power, and cash dividend policy
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 1 , p. 33 - 62 Posted: 1994
˚ Egge , Asmund
Transformation of bank structures in the industrial period: The case of Norway 1830-1914
Journal of European Economic History , volume 12 , p. 272 - 273 Posted: 1983
Michael Ewens , Nadya Malenko
Board dynamics over the startup lifecycle Posted: 2020
Olubunmi Faleye , Rani Hoitash , Udi Hoitash
The costs of intense board monitoring
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 101 , p. 160 - 181 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,207
RANK
41,549
7 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Swedish House of Finance Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies