Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Workplace Environment and Corporate Audits

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2017, Vol. 36, pp. 89-113

53 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2017 Last revised: 16 Oct 2021

Minjie Huang

University of Louisville - Department of Finance

Adi Masli

University of Kansas - School of Business

Felix Meschke

University of Kansas - Finance Area

James P. Guthrie

University of Kansas - School of Business

Date Written: October 27, 2016

Abstract

We obtain a novel dataset of workplace satisfaction ratings submitted by about 100,000 employees working for large public U.S. companies. We document that lower workplace ratings are associated with higher audit fees and longer audit report lags. Lower workplace ratings also increase the likelihood of firms receiving modified going concern opinions. Our study shows that organizational workplace environments affect auditor risk assessments and auditing outcomes and provide insights for practicing auditors and corporate executives. Our interviews with practicing auditors at large U.S. accounting firms also provide insights as to how workplace quality affects the corporate audit.

Keywords: workplace environment, audit fees, going concern opinions, audit report lag

JEL Classification: G3, J28, M14, M42

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Minjie and Masli, Adi and Meschke, Felix and Guthrie, James P., Client Workplace Environment and Corporate Audits (October 27, 2016). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, 2017, Vol. 36, pp. 89-113, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2902912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,293
RANK
190,292
9 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies