Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shareholder Activism and CSR Disclosure

8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017

Posted: 23 Jan 2017

Yi Yang

Victoria University of Wellington

Binh Bui

Victoria University of Wellington

Thu Phuong Truong

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Date Written: January 21, 2017

Abstract

Our study investigates how shareholder proposal, as an evidence of shareholder activism affects CSR disclosure. Based on the non-legal binding nature of shareholder proposals, our study explores the impact of CSR shareholder proposal activism on the extent of CSR disclosure after controlling for corporate governance mechanisms existent within the firm. Based on a sample of 466 firm-years between 2006 and 2014, we find that CSR shareholder proposals do not significantly change the extent of CSR disclosure. Although we find that shareholder proposals increase social disclosure at the end of the first year, this impact does not continue in the second year. We also find that outside directors, as an internal governance mechanism, substitutes with the monitoring effects from shareholder proposals on the extent of CSR disclosure. Our research contributes to prior studies by exploring the monitoring effects of shareholder proposals on CSR disclosure.

Keywords: shareholder activism, shareholder proposal, CSR disclosure, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Yi and Bui, Binh and Truong, Thu Phuong, Shareholder Activism and CSR Disclosure (January 21, 2017). 8th Conference on Financial Markets and Corporate Governance (FMCG) 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2902989 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2902989
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,059
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies