Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Interaction between Audit Committee and Internal Audit of Enhance the Corporate Governance at Listed Palestinian Companies

32 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2017 Last revised: 24 Jan 2017

Abdullfatah Sartawe

Palestine Technical University - KADOORIE -PTUK

Laith Shrouf

Palestine Technical University

Date Written: January 20, 2017

Abstract

Purpose – this paper aims to offer an empirical evidence about the effect of internal audit and audit committee interaction of enhance the corporate governance on listed Palestinian companies.

Design/methodology/approach – a number of questionnaires were sent to chef internal audit executives of 44 listed Palestinian companies, and to enhance the depth of variables measurement tools the questionnaire was sent to 3 accounting professors and high experienced internal auditor at big Palestinian companies to take there feedback about the questions included in questionnaire.

Finding – this paper found that the interaction between audit committee and internal audit have significant positively effect to enhance the corporate governance. And 97% of study sample agreed the direct line of access for internal auditor to audit committee that enhance the corporate governance, at the same percentage the sample was agree that the (the review of internal audit work result, and plane of internal audit by the audit committee was effect the corporate governance).

Value and contribution – to the best of the authors knowledge, this paper fill one of the major topics of auditing literature. This the interaction role between audit committee and internal audit as an institution of internal auditor IIA require. And to measure this interaction on corporate governance.

Keywords: internal audit, audit committee interaction, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Sartawe, Abdullfatah and Shrouf, Laith, The Impact of Interaction between Audit Committee and Internal Audit of Enhance the Corporate Governance at Listed Palestinian Companies (January 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2902640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2902640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
L Abbott , S Parker
Auditor selection and audit committee characteristics
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 47 - 66 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Alzeban , N Sawan
The impact of audit committee characteristics on the implementation of internal audit recommendations
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 71 Posted: 2015
Crossref
U Anderson , M Christ , K Johnstone , L Rittenberg
A post-SOX examination of factors associated with the size of internal audit functions
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Allegrini , . D&apos;onza , G Paape , L Melville , R Sarense , G
the European literature review on internal auditing
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 8 , p. 845 - 853 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
495
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,426
RANK
131,230
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies