Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Analysis of Free Cash Flow and Dividend Policy in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Sector

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 7, No. 12, 2016

7 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2017

Bashir Tijjani

Bayero University - Department of Accounting

Armaya'u Sani

Federal University Dutsin‐Ma - Centre for Entrepreneurship Development

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

The paper is to determine the impact of free cash flow on dividend policy of oil and gas companies in Nigeria. The data was collected from annual reports and accounts of the sampled companies for the period of twelve years from 2003 to 2014. Data is analyzed by means of descriptive statistics to provide summary statistics for the variables and correlation analysis is also carried out using Pearson correlation technique for the correlation between the dependent and explanatory variables. Multiple regression technique was used to analyze the data using STATA software version 12.00. The study found that free cash flow and earnings per share have positive effects on the dividend policy while a negative significant relationship is found between leverage and dividend policy of listed oil and gas companies Nigeria. Companies in which high proportion of shares are held by managers are more reluctant in paying a higher dividend. Hence, The study recommends that companies in the oil and gas sector should endeavor to improve the level of free cash and profitability while reducing the level of leverage thereby paying a higher dividend payout policy.

Keywords: Free Cash Flow, Dividend Policy, Earning per Share, Leverage

Suggested Citation:

Tijjani, Bashir and Sani, Armaya'u, An Empirical Analysis of Free Cash Flow and Dividend Policy in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Sector (2016). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 7, No. 12, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
O J Adelegan
An Empirical Analysis of the Relationship between Cash Flow and Dividend Changes in Nigeria
R&D Management , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 49 Posted: 2003
Crossref
T Afza , H H Mirza
Ownership Structure and Cash Flows As Determinants of Corporate Dividend Policy in Pakistan
International Business Research , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 210 - 221 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Agrawal , N Jayaraman
The Dividend Policies of all Equity Firms: A Direct Test of the Free Cash Flow Theory
Managerial and Decision Economics , volume 15 , p. 139 - 148 Posted: 1994
Crossref
M Al-Gharaibeh , Z Zurigat , K Al-Harahsheh
The Effect of Ownership Structure on Dividends Policy in Jordanian Companies
Interdisciplinary Journal of Contemporary Research in Business , volume 4 , issue 9 , p. 769 - 796 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
735
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,254
RANK
79,486
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies