Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Planning and Market Value of Listed Oil and Gas Companies in Nigeria

International Journal of Management Research & Review (IJMRR), Volume 6, Issue 12, Article No-9/1708-1715, Dec. 2016

Posted: 4 Feb 2017 Last revised: 14 Mar 2017

Armaya'u Sani

Federal University Dutsin‐Ma - Centre for Entrepreneurship Development

Jamilu Madaki

Jigawa State Polytechnic, Dutse - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the influence of corporate tax planning and market value of oil and gas companies in Nigeria. The data was collected from annual reports and accounts of the sampled companies for the period of ten years from 2005 to 2014. Data is analyzed by means of descriptive statistics and Pearson correlation technique was used to determine the relationship between the dependent and explanatory variables. Panel data regression technique was used to analyze the data using STATA software version 12.00. The results found that effective tax rate and tax saving have significant negative effects on the market value of listed oil and gas Companies. The study also found return on equity and leverage have significant effect on market value of listed oil and gas companies in Nigeria. Companies in the oil and gas sector did not tab the benefit of various inceptive obtainable through tax planning activities. Hence, the needs for tax consultant to actually educate companies on the benefit of effective tax planning activity that could influence the shareholders wealth.

Keywords: Tax Planning, Firms Market Value, Return on Equity, Effective Tax Rate and Leverage

Suggested Citation:

Sani, Armaya'u and Madaki, Jamilu, Corporate Tax Planning and Market Value of Listed Oil and Gas Companies in Nigeria (December 1, 2016). International Journal of Management Research & Review (IJMRR), Volume 6, Issue 12, Article No-9/1708-1715, Dec. 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903498
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,084
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies