Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Distress, Political Affiliation, and Earnings Management: The Case of Politically-Affiliated Private Firms

The European Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2017

Gady Jacoby

College of Management Academic Studies; Seton Hall University; University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Jialong Li

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Mingzhi Liu

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business; University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

Using a sample of politically-affiliated private firms in China, we explore the relation between corporate financial distress and earnings management. We further examine the joint moderating effects of political affiliation and regional development on this relation. The findings suggest that financially-distressed firms engage more in reporting small positive earnings relative to financially-healthy firms. In addition, political affiliation weakens the association between financial distress and small positive earnings management. A three-way interaction analysis indicates that the moderating effect of political affiliation is influenced by regional development.

Keywords: Financial Distress, Earnings Management, Political Affiliation, Economic Imbalance

Suggested Citation:

Jacoby, Gady and Jacoby, Gady and Li, Jialong and Liu, Mingzhi and Liu, Mingzhi, Financial Distress, Political Affiliation, and Earnings Management: The Case of Politically-Affiliated Private Firms (August 1, 2016). The European Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
F Allen , J Qian , M Qian
Law, Finance, and Economic Growth in China
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E Altman
Corporate Financial Distress: A Complete Guide to Predicting, Avoiding and Dealing with Bankruptcy Posted: 1983
E Altman
Corporate Financial Distress: A Complete Guide to Predicting, Avoiding and Dealing with Bankruptcy, 2 nd Ed Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,757
RANK
362,694
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies