Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Framework for and the Role of Carbon Accounting in Corporate Carbon Management Systems: A Holistic Approach

48 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2017

Qingliang Tang

School of Business, Western Sydney University

Date Written: January 20, 2017

Abstract

Climate change is a complex phenomenon, however, the accounting methodology used for climate change remains poorly understood. This paper proposes a broad concept of carbon accounting: carbon accounting is a system that uses accounting methods to record and analyse climate-change information as well as account for and report carbon-related assets, liabilities, expenses, and income for decision-making purposes. In addition, this paper adopts a holistic approach to describing inter-related functions of the components of carbon accounting, showing what role it can play in the construction of corporate carbon management systems. The paper discusses how innovative and creative approaches are used to develop carbon accounting frameworks, methodologies, and programs that are workable.

Keywords: carbon accounting, climate change, carbon management systems

JEL Classification: M41, Q56

Suggested Citation:

Tang, Qingliang, Framework for and the Role of Carbon Accounting in Corporate Carbon Management Systems: A Holistic Approach (January 20, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2903366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
201 References
T Ahrens , J F Dent
Accounting and organizations: realizing the richness of field research
Journal of management accounting research , volume 10 Posted: 1998
Aldersgate Group
Carbon Costs: Corporate Carbon Accounting and Reporting. London: The Aldersgate Group Posted: 2007
P Archel , M Fernández , C Larrinaga
The organizational and operational boundaries of triple bottom line reporting: a survey
Environmental management , volume 41 , p. 106 - 117 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P Armstrong
Ideology and the grammar of idealism: The Caterpillar controversy revisited
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 529 - 548 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
17 Citations
Millie Liew , June Cao
Accounting for Carbon Emissions Through Green Supply Chain Management: A Systematic Literature Review
Business Strategy and the Environment Posted: 2025
Crossref
Qingliang Tang
Institutional Influence, Transition Management, and the Demand for Carbon Auditing: The Chinese Experience
42 Pages · Posted: 27 Jan 2017 · Downloads: 131
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tze San Ong , Nur Fatin Binti Kasbun , Boon Heng Teh , Haslinah Muhammad , Sohail Ahmad Javeed
Carbon accounting system: the bridge between carbon governance and carbon performance in Malaysian Companies
Ecosystem Health and Sustainability , volume 7 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Lars Brehm , Jessica Slamka , Andreas Nickmann
Digitalization Across Organizational Levels
, p. 209 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
977
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,215
RANK
54,070
17 Citations
201 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies