Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Comply or Explain' and the Future of Nonfinancial Reporting

21 Lewis & Clark Law Review 317 (2017)

39 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2017 Last revised: 17 Aug 2017

Virginia E. Harper Ho

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute

Date Written: July 15, 2017

Abstract

Although investor demand for material “environmental, social, and governance” (ESG) information that can be readily used in financial analysis continues to grow, many firms and their advisors have concerns about the potential costs and benefits of new disclosure mandates. This Article argues that a “comply or explain” approach to ESG reporting could be a more effective alternative to new line-item mandates, on the one hand, and reliance on voluntary ESG reporting on the other.

This Article first surveys empirical research across many of the jurisdictions that have implemented a comply-or-explain approach and finds that comply-or-explain principles have proven effective in improving corporate governance practices and enhancing corporate transparency, particularly in the markets that most resemble the United States. The Article then draws on this comparative experience to propose principles that could guide the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in incorporating a comply-or-explain approach to ESG reporting within the current U.S. financial reporting framework. It concludes by suggesting specific elements that could be incorporated in new ESG disclosure standards on a comply-or-explain basis.

Keywords: disclosure, nonfinancial, corporate governance, securities, comply or explain, metastudy, reporting, materiality, ESG, sustainability

JEL Classification: K22, M48, M14, G3, G38

Suggested Citation:

Harper Ho, Virginia E., 'Comply or Explain' and the Future of Nonfinancial Reporting (July 15, 2017). 21 Lewis & Clark Law Review 317 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Yan Luo , &amp; Steven , E Salterio
analyzing compliance with 47 corporate governance code principles for all 655 listed Canadian firms based on annual reports and proxy statements for
Governance , volume 461 Posted: 2006
Nina K Cankar
The Reflexive Properties of Corporate Governance Codes: The Reception of the 'Comply-or-Explain' Approach in Slovenia
J.L. & Soc'y , volume 501 , p. 524 - 549 Posted: 2010
Crossref
analyzing compliance with over 52 corporate governance variables). A similar study on Croatian listed firms in 2011 found that 63% of the companies adopted the code, with 95% of those self-reporting full compliance; however, the study did not analyze adoption or explanation with specific code provisions. See Hana Horak & Nada Bodiroga-Vukobrat, EU Member States' Experiences with the 'Comply or Explain' Principle in Corporate Governance
Croat. Y.B. Eur. L. & Pol'y , volume 373 , p. 196 - 99 Posted: 2011
See Larry Fauver
Board Reforms and Firm Value: Worldwide Evidence , volume 7 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,583
RANK
41,137
8 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies