Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting the Effect of Family Involvement on Corporate Social Responsibility: A Behavioral Agency Perspective

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2017

Victor Cui

Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia; University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Shujun Ding

University of Ottawa - Telfer School of Management

Mingzhi Liu

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business; University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Zhenyu Wu

University of Manitoba

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

This paper sheds light on the incongruent findings concerning the relationship between family involvement and firms’ corporate social responsibility (CSR). While prior studies have mainly taken the perspective of families’ socio-emotional wealth preservation, we approach this relationship from the perspective of behavioral agency theory, highlighting the important role played by CEOs’ family memberships. Specifically, we posit that family firms are more likely to invest in CSR when their CEOs are members of the controlling families. Furthermore, we examine how family firms can employ long-term incentives to encourage non-family CEOs to act in the interests of the controlling families to preserve SEW and thus enhancing family firms’ CSR performance. We tested our hypotheses using hand-collected data of family firms included in the S&P 500 index, in the period of 2003 to 2010. The empirical findings support our hypotheses that (a) family firms with family members as the CEOs have better CSR performance and (b) family firms tend to provide a high level of long-term incentives to non-family than family CEOs. In addition, long-term incentives strongly motivate CEOs to improve firms’ CSR performance, regardless of their family memberships.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Family Involvement, Behavioral Agency Theory, CEOs’ Family Membership, Long-term Incentives, Socioemotional Wealth

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Victor and Cui, Victor and Ding, Shujun and Liu, Mingzhi and Liu, Mingzhi and Wu, Zhenyu, Revisiting the Effect of Family Involvement on Corporate Social Responsibility: A Behavioral Agency Perspective (August 1, 2016). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
H Aguinis
Organizational responsibility: Doing good and doing well Posted: 2011
Crossref
R V Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in corporate social responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H E Aldrich , J E Cliff
The pervasive effects of family on entrepreneurship: Toward a family embeddedness perspective
Journal of business venturing , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 573 - 596 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Founding family ownership and the agency cost of debt
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , p. 263 - 285 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Naciye Sekerci , Jamil Jaballah , Marc van Essen , Nadine Kammerlander
Investors' Reactions to CSR News in Family vs. Nonfamily Firms: A Study on Signal (In)Credibility
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice · 45 Pages · Posted: 29 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 12 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 122
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,348
RANK
605,468
1 Citations
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies