Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anti-Misconduct Policies, Corporate Governance and Capital Market Responses: International Evidence

Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions, and Money, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2017

Changhong Li

Shanxi University

Jialong Li

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Mingzhi Liu

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business; University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Yuan Wang

University of Manitoba - Asper School of Business

Zhenyu Wu

University of Manitoba

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

Using a sample of 5,486 observations from 25 countries between 2009 and 2013, we investigate the signaling effects of anti-misconduct policies on market valuation, and address the roles played by internal corporate governance mechanisms and external institutional environments. The results show that effective corporate governance mechanisms lead to higher-quality anti-misconduct policies. Furthermore, we find that although anti-misconduct policies alone do not affect market valuation in general, they do improve market valuation in countries with stronger legal and regulatory environments.

Keywords: Anti-misconduct Policies, Corporate Governance, Market Valuation

Suggested Citation:

Li, Changhong and Li, Jialong and Liu, Mingzhi and Liu, Mingzhi and Wang, Yuan and Wu, Zhenyu, Anti-Misconduct Policies, Corporate Governance and Capital Market Responses: International Evidence (December 1, 2016). Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions, and Money, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903818
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
Female board presence and the likelihood of financial restatement
Account. Horizons , volume 26 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
J. financ. econ , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A S Ahmed , B K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
Account. Rev , volume 77 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
Crossref
C R Alexander
On the nature of the reputational penalty for corporate crime: Evidence
J. Law Econ , volume 42 , p. 489 - 526 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,391
RANK
687,436
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies