Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Performance Consequences of Board Structure Changes: Evidence from Ghana

33 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2017

Andrews Owusu

University of Derby - Derby Business School

Mark Holmes

Coventry University

Jacob Agyemang

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Date Written: January 21, 2017

Abstract

This paper analyses the performance consequences of board structure changes in Ghana for the study period 2000 to 2009. We predict that board structure changes prompted by the introduction of the Ghanaian Code in 2003 should lead to better firm performance. The results show that duality decreases firm performance pre-2003, but those firms that separate the two posts in line with the recommendations of the Ghanaian Code did not perform better than those that combined the two post-2003. While we find no relationship between board committees and firm performance pre-2003, the relationship switched to positive and statistically significant post- 2003. The most consistent result we find concerns board size. However, the non-executive director representation on the board appears to have no impact on firm performance. These results show that not all board structure recommendations introduced by the Ghanaian Code are effective in achieving superior performance in Ghana.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Board Structure, Firm Performance, Ghana

JEL Classification: G34, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Owusu, Andrews and Holmes, Mark and Agyemang, Jacob, The Performance Consequences of Board Structure Changes: Evidence from Ghana (January 21, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903237 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2903237
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
703
RANK
649,230
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies