Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Behavioral Considerations in Business Tax Reform: The Case of Expensing

56 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2017 Last revised: 5 Feb 2017

Lily L. Batchelder

New York University School of Law

Date Written: January 24, 2017

Abstract

One of the fundamental questions in business tax reform is whether to allow firms to immediately expense investments or require economic cost recovery. The conventional view is that expensing would generate stronger growth effects holding revenues constant. This view is rooted in traditional models of corporate finance that assume firms look at the net present value of expected tax payments when incorporating taxes into investment decisions. But this traditional view ignores the possibility that firms focus on more salient measures of taxes as well. If so, they may respond less to expensing than this theory suggests because expensing does not lower their financial accounting tax liability and, all else equal, requires a higher statutory rate.

This paper considers whether firms undervalue expensing due to a focus on these non-economic tax metrics and, if so, what this implies about business tax reform if the goal is to increase US investment. It develops a framework for what cost recovery rules are optimal, and then uses new and existing data to parameterize this framework, holding constant long-run revenues and the relative tax treatment of debt and equity. While the empirical evidence is still nascent, it tentatively concludes that applying economic cost recovery to public and very large companies in order to pay for a lower statutory tax rate would generate more US investment and growth than expensing — reducing the relevant tax rate on such companies by more than two percentage points estimated conservatively, and possibly by much more. This estimate is sensitive to the underlying empirical parameters and could easily change. But it does cast doubt on the conventional view that expensing would generate much more US investment and growth than the alternatives. It also contrasts with estimates by non-partisan Congressional staff that expensing as part of a business cash-flow tax would generate modestly higher growth, and with far more dramatic positive growth estimates by some prominent think tanks.

Keywords: tax reform, business income taxation, corporate income taxation, cash-flow tax, behavioral corporate finance, behavioral economics, accounting

JEL Classification: D21, D22, G02, G38, H20, H21, H25, H32, K22, K34, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Batchelder, Lily L., Accounting for Behavioral Considerations in Business Tax Reform: The Case of Expensing (January 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2904885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2904885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
President&apos;s Framework
Posted: 2012
See supra note 135
Donald J Trump
An America First Economic Plan: Winning the Global Competition (Detroit Economic Club Posted: 2016-08-08
Richard Rubin
Donald Trump's Tax Ideas Could Boost Debt-Laden Real Estate Firms
WALL ST. J Posted: 2016-08-18
Load more
2 Citations
Lily L. Batchelder , David Kamin
Taxing the Rich: Issues and Options
51 Pages · Posted: 18 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 1 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 9,374
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lily L. Batchelder
The Shaky Case for a Business Cash-Flow Tax Over a Business Income Tax
National Tax Journal, 70:4, 901-936, 2017 · 36 Pages · Posted: 7 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 76
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,415
RANK
38,060
2 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies