Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Managerial Ability: Implications for Corporate Governance

Forthcoming, The Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance

Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2017-01

Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2017-03-001

86 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2017

Benjamin E. Hermalin

University of California, Berkeley; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Michael S. Weisbach

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 22, 2017

Abstract

A manager’s current and potential future employers are continually assessing her or his ability. Such assessment is a crucial component of corporate governance and this chapter provides an overview of the research on that aspect of governance. In particular, we review how assessment generates incentives (both good and bad), generates risks that must be faced by both managers and firms, and affects the contractual relationships between those parties in important ways. Assessment (or learning) proves a key perspective from which to study, evaluate, and possibly even regulate corporate governance. Moreover, because learning is a behavior notoriously subject to systematic biases, this perspective is a natural avenue through which to introduce behavioral and psychological insights into the study of corporate governance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Career Concerns, Learning and Assessment, Cognitive Biases

JEL Classification: G34, M12, D83, D81

Suggested Citation:

Hermalin, Benjamin E. and Weisbach, Michael S., Assessing Managerial Ability: Implications for Corporate Governance (January 22, 2017). Forthcoming, The Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance, Charles A. Dice Center Working Paper No. 2017-01, Fisher College of Business Working Paper No. 2017-03-001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2904346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2904346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,679
RANK
125,978
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies