Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Risk Disclosures and Board Gender-Diversity in Gulf Cooperation Council Firms

Posted: 25 Jan 2017

Khamis Al-Yahyaee

Sultan Qaboos University; Economic Research Forum

Ahmed Al-Hadi

Sultan Qaboos University - Accounting; Curtin University - School of Accounting; Sultan Qaboos University - College of Economics & Political Science

Syed Mujahid Hussain

Independent

Date Written: January 25, 2017

Abstract

Board of directors is one of the internal governance mechanisms that are intended to ensure that the interests of shareholders and managers are closely aligned. Among the most significant governance issues currently faced by the modern corporation are those relating to diversity. In this paper, we investigate the impact of board gender-diversity on corporate risk reporting for Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) financial firms. Recent development and improvement of corporate governance in the GCC markets suggest that firms in the GCC will be more transparent and having less information asymmetry. However, we find the presence of female directors in the boards of financial institutions suppresses the positive association between corporate governance and market risk disclosures for the period between 2007 and 2011. These findings suggest that culture, and conservatism nature of GCC societies persist in the GCC business environment. Our results are robust to alternative specifications and homogeneity tests.

Keywords: Market Risk Disclosures, Corporate Governance, Female Director, Political Connection, GCC

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Al-Yahyaee, Khamis and Al-Hadi, Ahmed and Hussain, Syed Mujahid, Market Risk Disclosures and Board Gender-Diversity in Gulf Cooperation Council Firms (January 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2905781
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,195
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies