Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Relation between Non-Controlling Interests and Parent Companies Misleading?

37 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2017

Ana Isabel Lopes

ISCTE-IUL Instituto Universitário de Lisboa

Isabel Lourenço

Lisbon University Institute (ISCTE-IUL); University of São Paulo (USP)

Mark T. Soliman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Manuel Castelo Branco

University of Porto - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: January 24, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates whether different levels of investor protection affect the market valuation of Non-Controlling Interests (NCI)’ share of subsidiaries in a consolidated entity. Using a set of European publicly listed firms, our findings suggest a positive association of NCI with parent companies’ share prices in countries with low levels of investor protection and a negative association in countries with higher levels. This suggests that when non-controlling investors are not well protected, parent companies have an opportunity to extract rents from non-controlling owners which leads to a positive valuation of NCI’s equity. However, in countries where non-controlling investors are well protected, parent companies are not able to extract rents but still must monitor and govern the related subsidiary so NCI becomes a net cost and the relation flips.

Keywords: Non-Controlling Interests, Value Relevance, Investor Protection, Legal Origin, Institutional Characteristics, Conceptual Framework, Parent Companies

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Lopes, Ana Isabel and Lourenço, Isabel and Soliman, Mark T. and Branco, Manuel Castelo, Is the Relation between Non-Controlling Interests and Parent Companies Misleading? (January 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2905244 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2905244
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,763
RANK
429,664
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies