Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Clawback Provision of SOX, Financial Misstatements, and CEO Compensation Contracts

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2017

Ramachandra (Ram) Natarajan

University of Texas at Dallas - Department of Accounting & Information Management

Kenneth Zheng

University of Wyoming - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 23, 2016

Abstract

Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (hereafter, SOX), commonly known as the clawback provision, entitles the SEC to sue the CEO and CFO in an attempt to recover their incentive compensation based on misstated financial reports. While a stream of literature investigates the effects of voluntary firm-initiated clawback provisions, this study explores the effects of the mandatory SOX clawback provision on the likelihood of financial misstatements and CEO compensation. We find a significant decrease in the association between CEO in-the-money option value and the likelihood of a misstatement from the pre- to the post-SOX period, suggesting the SOX clawback provision has been effective in reducing financial misstatements arising from CEO in-the-money stock options. To examine the effects of the SOX clawback provision on CEO compensation, we identify a set of misstatement firms with high restatement likelihood where the CEOs are most likely concerned with the impact of the SOX clawback provision on their compensation. We then compare how the compensation of CEOs in these high restatement likelihood firms changes between the pre- and post-SOX periods with the compensation of CEOs in control firms. We find that compared to the control firms, these firms with a high restatement likelihood where the CEO is the chair of the board exhibit an increase in CEO salaries between the pre- and the post-SOX periods, suggesting that in the post-SOX period influential CEOs are able to receive higher salaries which are not subject to the SOX clawback provision.

Keywords: Clawback Provision, Financial Misstatements, CEO Compensation, Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), Section 304

JEL Classification: M41, K22, J33, J38

Suggested Citation:

Natarajan, Ramachandra (Ram) and Zheng, Kenneth, Clawback Provision of SOX, Financial Misstatements, and CEO Compensation Contracts (June 23, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
N Addy , X Chu , T Yoder
Voluntary adoption of clawback provisions, corporate governance, and interlock effects
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 33 , p. 167 - 189 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C S Armstrong , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Chief executive officer equity incentives and accounting irregularities
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 225 - 271 Posted: 2010
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried , D I Walker
Executive compensation in America: Optimal contracting or extraction of rents
NBER Working Paper Series Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Bergstresser , T Philippon
CEO incentives and earnings management
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , p. 511 - 529 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,172
RANK
369,949
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies