Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Impact of Culture on IFRS Risk Disclosures for Firms that Cross-List in the U.S.

Accounting & Taxation, v. 8 (1) p. 59-67

9 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2017 Last revised: 25 Feb 2018

Carmen Ríos-Figueroa

Universidad del Este

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Accounting disclosures is an important factor in the decision making process of users of financial statements. Differences in cultural values across countries may result in different opinions regarding the adequacy or extent of the disclosures on the financial statements. The objective of this study is to examine the effect of culture on IFRS 7 risk disclosures in firms that cross-list in the United States. This paper extends the current literature in the area of culture and IFRS risk disclosure requirements. The study sample consists of 62 international firms that trade in the New York Stock Exchange. A cross-country analysis related to IFRS 7 disclosure level of financial risk was prepared for each firm. Using Hofstede (1983) and Gray’s theory (1988), each company and country was divided by cultural area and by a level of secrecy and conservatism scale. A level of risk disclosures was created for each company after considering the extension of the IFRS 7 disclosures in their annual reports. The results suggest that culture (secrecy and conservatism) do not have a significant impact in IFRS 7 disclosure levels. However, other economic and political factors seem to influence risk disclosures in financial statements.

Keywords: Culture, IFRS 7, Risk Disclosures, Secrecy, Conservatism

JEL Classification: F2, M16, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ríos-Figueroa, Carmen, An Examination of the Impact of Culture on IFRS Risk Disclosures for Firms that Cross-List in the U.S. (2016). Accounting & Taxation, v. 8 (1) p. 59-67, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2909053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Arping , Z Sautner
Did SOX Section 404 make firms less opaque? Evidence from crosslisted firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 1133 - 1165 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Bentley , M Franklin
Which International Cultures Favor Disclosure of Risk
International Journal of Business, Accounting, and Finance , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 62 - 76 Posted: 2013
S Beretta , S Bozzolan
A framework for the analysis of firm risk communication
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 265 - 288 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
RANK
418,259
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies