Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social and Environmental Accounting: Evidence from the Stock Exchange of Mauritius

Accounting & Taxation, v. 8 (1) p. 69-76

8 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2017

Subadar Agathee Ushad

University of Mauritius

Mootooganagen Ramen

University of Mauritius

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This paper looks at the social and environmental disclosure in Mauritius. In particular, the listed companies of Mauritius were targeted to assess their views for and against the social and environmental practices. Using a sample of 30 listed companies, the results suggest that there are listed companies in Mauritius which are engaged in some of the elements of social and environmental accounting (SEA) practices such as disclosing issues, ensuring transparency, complying with corporate governance. However, there are still areas of improvement such as proper education and wellbeing of the citizen, training, employment of handicapped person with adequate equipment amongst others which need to be addressed.

Keywords: Accounting, Social Accounting, Environmental Accounting, SEM

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ushad, Subadar Agathee and Ramen, Mootooganagen, Social and Environmental Accounting: Evidence from the Stock Exchange of Mauritius (2016). Accounting & Taxation, v. 8 (1) p. 69-76, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2909047
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R L Burritt , S Welch
Australian Commonwealth entities:An analysis of their environmental disclosures
ABACUS , issue 1 , p. 69 - 77 Posted: 1997
Crossref
A B Carroll
Corporate social responsibility: Evolution of definitional construct
Business and Society , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 268 - 295 Posted: 1999
C Deegan
Introduction: The legitimising effect of social and environmental disclosures -a theoretical foundation
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 282 - 311 Posted: 2002
C Deegan , B Gordon
A study of the environmental disclosure practices of Australian corporations
Accounting and Business Research , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 187 - 199 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,915
RANK
222,795
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies