Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Product Market Competition, Dividend Policy, and Shareholder Protection: The International Evidence

38 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2017

Bobby Alexander

Fort Hays State University

Stephen P. Ferris

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Sanjiv Sabherwal

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Finance and Real Estate

Date Written: February 1, 2017

Abstract

This study examines whether dividend payout, an internal corporate governance mechanism, is a substitute or an outcome of product market competition, an external corporate governance mechanism. The sample includes firms in six of the world’s most prominent economies. We find that firms in more competitive industries pay less in the way of dividends to their shareholders, which is consistent with the notion that dividends and competition are substitutes. We also determine that the negative relationship between dividends and competition is attenuated by the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and is weaker in countries with a stronger set of protections for minority shareholders. Our empirical findings are robust to alternative measures of dividend payout, industry definition, and shareholder protection.

Keywords: Dividends; Payout, Concentration, Competition, Shareholder protection, SOX

JEL Classification: G30, G35

Suggested Citation:

Alexander, Bobby and Ferris, Stephen P. and Sabherwal, Sanjiv, Product Market Competition, Dividend Policy, and Shareholder Protection: The International Evidence (February 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2909936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2909936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M M Knetter , M J Slaughter
Measuring Product-Market Integration
Topics in Empirical International Economics: A Festschrift in Honor of Robert E. Lipsey , p. 15 - 46 Posted: 2001
Crossref
La Porta , R Lopez-De-Silanes , F Shleifer , A Vishny , R
Agency Problems and Dividend Policies around the World
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2000
Ezra Wasserman Mitchell
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Reinvention of Corporate Governance?
Villanova Law Review, Vol. 48, No. 4, p. 1189, 2003 Pages: 29 Posted: 16 Dec 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S C Myers
Outside equity
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 1005 - 1037 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,383
RANK
202,787
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies