Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting-Based Thresholds and Growth Decisions in the Banking Industry

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2017 Last revised: 16 Sep 2020

Hailey Ballew

Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business - Rice University

Michael Iselin

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Department of Accounting

Allison Nicoletti

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: September 7, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of accounting-based thresholds in regulation on growth decisions
in the banking industry. To investigate this relation we study changes in growth around the $10
billion asset threshold specified in the Dodd-Frank Act. We first document that in the years
after the new threshold-based regulations are announced, banks slow their asset growth as they
approach the threshold and then accelerate their asset growth as they cross the threshold. Next,
we document the primary mechanism banks use to achieve each of these changes in growth:
reduced deposit growth rates to slow growth and increased acquisition activity to accelerate
growth. Finally, we document that while banks attempt to remain below the threshold, they
reduce the growth of their investment portfolio and report a lower return on assets. Also, when
banks accelerate growth through acquisition activity, those acquisitions involve larger and riskier
target banks. These findings suggest that regulations with accounting-based thresholds can affect
growth decisions and profitability in the banking industry.

Keywords: Banks, Regulation, Accounting-Based Thresholds, Acquisitions, Deposits

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Ballew, Hailey and Iselin, Michael and Nicoletti, Allison, Accounting-Based Thresholds and Growth Decisions in the Banking Industry (September 7, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2910440 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2910440
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , Thomas , S
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B A Badertscher , J J Burks , P D Easton
A convenient scapegoat: Fair value accounting by commercial banks during the financial crisis
The Accounting Review , volume 87 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 90 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Bank regulation and supervision: what works best
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 13 , p. 205 - 248 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Beatty
The Effect of Fair Value Accounting Portfolio Management: How Fair Is It ? Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,396
RANK
122,498
8 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies