Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Users’ Perception on Corporate Voluntary Disclosure in Bangladesh

Daffodil International University Journal of Business and Economics, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp.136-151, June 2016

16 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2017

Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur Rouf

Daffodil International University

Date Written: June 2016

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to examine the users’ perception regarding the importance, relevance, timeliness, materiality and comparability of voluntary disclosure in corporate annual reports practiced by the listed companies operating in Bangladesh. Data have been collected through planned questionnaire by using direct interview method of data collection. Identifying the perceptions of various user groups i.e., professional accountants, accounting professors, investors and stockbrokers. The Chi-Square tests were carried out to test the nominated null-hypotheses. It is revealed from the analytical results that the respondents’ perception is dissatisfactory of Timeliness, comparability and relevance. Such dissatisfaction indicates that the existing corporate voluntary information practices of Bangladesh are not capable of meeting the users’ information needs.

Keywords: Perception, Professional Accountants, Accounting Professors, Investors, and Stockbrokers

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Rouf, Prof. Dr. Md. Abdur, Users’ Perception on Corporate Voluntary Disclosure in Bangladesh (June 2016). Daffodil International University Journal of Business and Economics, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp.136-151, June 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2911544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M Abu-Nasser , B A Rutherford
External users of financial reports in less developed countries: the case of Jordan
British Accounting Review , volume 28 , p. 73 - 87 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Ahmed , M Day
Bank loan officers' perceptions of corporate financial disclosure in the banking sector of Bangladesh: An empirical analysis
Proceedings 2nd CBRC , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2009
M Akhtaruddin
Corporate mandatory disclosure practices in Bangladesh
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , p. 399 - 422 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Akhtaruddin , M A Rouf
Corporate Governance, Cultural Factors and Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Selected Companies in Bangladesh
Corporate Board: Role, Duties & Composition , volume 8 , p. 46 - 58 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,133
RANK
682,509
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies