Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Analysis of Earnings Management Before and after the Governance and Disclosure Regulatory Changes in Australia and New Zealand

46 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2017

Lan Sun

CQUniversity (Australia)

Omar Al Farooque

University of New England (Australia)

Date Written: February 6, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the effect of regulatory changes and corporate governance reforms on firms’ earnings management practices in Australia and New Zealand. Using a sample of 3,966 firm-year observations including all ASX and NZX listed firms from the period 2001 to 2006, we find that the magnitude of earnings management did not decline after the introduction of new regulations to reform corporate governance. In fact, we observe a positive time trend suggesting that earnings management has been growing over time. We also perform Chow test and the results indicate a structural change has occurred in earnings management practice before and after the new regulation was introduced in Australia. The results reveal that managers tend to reduce earnings before the introduction of corporate law and economic reform program, companies with high reported earnings may be targeted by the regulators and attracted more public inquiry during the reform movement and therefore managers would have incentive to engage in downward earnings management to reduce such political exposure. We also find that subsequently following the reform action, managers are more likely to show a smooth and growing earnings string to prove that firm performance has benefited from the reform. As such, upward earning management severs a role of information signalling in the period after the introduction of corporate law and economic reform program to convince investors the better shaped and improved financial performance after the regulatory change. These findings taken together can lead regulatory authorities considering appropriate measures to promote earnings quality in corporate financial reporting from a long-run decision usefulness context.

Keywords: Earnings management, discretionary accruals, regulatory reforms, corporate governance, event year, Australia, New Zealand

JEL Classification: M40, M41, L25

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Lan and Farooque, Omar Al, An Exploratory Analysis of Earnings Management Before and after the Governance and Disclosure Regulatory Changes in Australia and New Zealand (February 6, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2912567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2912567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
120 References
L J Abbott , S S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S N Abdullah , N M Nasir
Accrual management and the independence of the board of directors and audit committees
IIUM Journal of Economics and Management , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 80 Posted: 2004
R B Adams
Governance and the financial crisis
International Review of Finance , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 38 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate governance and accounting scandals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Allan Chang
Analysis on corporate governance compliance standards in New Zealand – a qualitative study on disclosures using content analysis and interviews
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 505 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Jaydeepkumar Durgeshbhai Patel
Determinats of Earnings Management: A Study of Selected Indian FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) Companies
IJRAR - International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews (IJRAR), E-ISSN 2348-1269, P- ISSN 2349-5138, Volume 7, Issue 2, Page No pp.785-793, April 2020 · 10 Pages · Posted: 20 Aug 2020 · Downloads: 88
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
MD Tanjil Mollah , Ishtiak Ahmed Sakib
Detection of Financial Statement Frauds Using Beneish Model: Empirical Evidence From Listed Pharmaceutical Companies in Bangladesh
International Journal of Management, Accounting and Economics, 7(9), 506-521, 2020 · 16 Pages · Posted: 9 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 628
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,363
RANK
202,787
3 Citations
120 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies