Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Board Gender Diversity on a Firm's Risk Strategies

Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2017 Last revised: 1 Nov 2018

Linda H. Chen

University of Idaho

Jeffrey Gramlich

Carson College of Business

Kimberly Houser

Ostrom Workshop on Data Management and Information Governance, Indiana University; Digital Democracy Lab, William & Mary Law School

Date Written: December 7, 2017

Abstract

We study whether board gender diversity (BGD) affects corporate risk strategies. Specifically, we investigate the association between BGD and firms’ reputation risk and financial risk. Using S&P data from 1997 to 2013, we find that BGD is negatively associated with tax avoidance, suggesting firms with gender-diverse boards are more cautious about potential reputation risks associated with aggressive tax strategies. However, we find that BGD is positively associated with firms’ financial risk. The combined findings illustrate that BGD aligns a firm’s risk exposure closer to risk-neutral shareholders’ preferences by reducing reputation risk exposure while enabling necessary financial risk exposure.

Keywords: board composition, gender diversity, reputation management, tax avoidance, financial risk

JEL Classification: G12, G30, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Linda H. and Gramlich, Jeffrey and Houser, Kimberly, The Effects of Board Gender Diversity on a Firm's Risk Strategies (December 7, 2017). Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2912655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2912655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
L Abbott , S Parker , T Presley
Female board presence and the likelihood of financial restatement
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Adams , V Ragunathan
Lehman sisters, Working paper Posted: 2013
R Aguilera , I Filatotchev , H Gospel , G Jackson
An organizational approach to comparative corporate governance: Costs, contingencies, and complementarities
Organization Science , volume 19 , p. 475 - 492 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,731
RANK
162,978
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies