Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Unconvincing Rise of the Statutory Derivative Action in Hong Kong: Evidence from its 10 Years of Enforcement

JOURNAL OF CORPORATE LAW STUDIES, 08 February 2017, pp. 1-28.

36 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2017

Félix E. Mezzanotte

Trinity College Dublin

Date Written: February 8, 2017

Abstract

In this article the performance of the Statutory Derivative Action (SDA) in Hong Kong was investigated for the period 2005-14. Although in this period the SDA and the common law derivative action coexisted under the same regime, the SDA became the most preferred remedy. The SDA’s requirement for leave of court proved more benign than expected in terms of number of applications approved by the courts and indemnity orders granted covering the application’s legal costs. But serious shortcomings in the SDA have persisted. No indemnity orders were granted regarding the costs of SDA substantive litigation. Nor was a single case observed where the plaintiff ended up winning the SDA litigation and obtaining relief. These limits cast serious doubt whether the SDA has thus far performed meaningfully its core functions in regards to compensating corporate harm and deterring future misconduct.

Keywords: derivative action, private enforcement, minority shareholders, shareholder protection, shareholder litigation

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Mezzanotte, Félix E., The Unconvincing Rise of the Statutory Derivative Action in Hong Kong: Evidence from its 10 Years of Enforcement (February 8, 2017). JOURNAL OF CORPORATE LAW STUDIES, 08 February 2017, pp. 1-28., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2914908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,603
RANK
514,660
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies