Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Indian Redefined Corporate Governance: In the Context of Companies Act 2013

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 7, No. 5, 2016

5 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2017

Showkat Busru

Pondicherry University, School of Commerce

Saumya Singh

Central University of Rajasthan, Students

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Good corporate governance in the changing business environment has emerged as powerful tool of competitiveness and sustainability. Thus in order to grow, prosper and compete in international markets, demands to commit itself as reliable, innovative and prompt service provider to protect interest of stakeholders and should also become reliable business partners in order to prosper and to have all round growth. Due to growing need of regulations for current settings Companies Act 1956 has been in need of a substantial revamp for quite some time now, to make it more contemporary and relevant to corporations, regulators and other stakeholders in India and keeping in the mind dynamism of world level business to have flexibility in internal and cross border transactions. Large part of the new Act is addressing the protecting mechanism corporate governance, a set of redefined regulation focusing on protection of share holders wealth and stake holders abstract interest in the entity in wake of sophisticated innovation in communication and technology sector. The main objective of the paper is to asses changed regulation and possible impact on the business sector. The current Act has redefined the concept and has brought a radical change in the way corporations are governed in India, with an objective, to improve corporate regulatory framework and governance model. The 2013 Act, has laid down specific responsibilities on the Executive Management, Board of Directors and Audit Committee of the Companies. It has not only raised the bar by increasing a number of Risk Management and Governance requirements, but has also stated stringent penalties for non-compliance to these provisions. The inclusion according to demanding needs of society add responsibility to the corporations to protect not only share holders interest but their policies should be bi product of own development and stakeholders protection. The strong implementation in co operation with entities is believed to facilitate compliance and promoting highest standard of corporate governance in India.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Companies Act 2013, Redefined

Suggested Citation:

Busru, Showkat and Singh, Saumya, Indian Redefined Corporate Governance: In the Context of Companies Act 2013 (2016). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol. 7, No. 5, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2914093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
The European Corporate Governance Institute Posted: 1998
Cadbury Code
SEBI: Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, Issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India
the Report of the Committee on the Financial Aspects of CG Posted: 1992
N Djodat , T Nguyen
Corporate Governance Disclosure in Emerging Markets Posted: 2008
M Subramanyam , H Dasaraju
Corporate Governance and Disclosure Practices in Listed Information Technology (IT) Companies in India
Open Journal of Accounting , issue 3 , p. 89 - 106 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,045
RANK
279,521
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies