Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How does dividend payout affect corporate social responsibility? A channel analysis

2021 China International Conference in Finance (CICF) Conference; the 2020 CAFM Conference; the 2019 FMA (US) Conference, the 31st Asian-Pacific Conference on International Accounting Issues; the 2019 FMA Asia/Pacific Conference; 2017 Asian Financial Association (AsianFA) annual meeting; the 2017

Journal of Financial Stability, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2017 Last revised: 8 Aug 2023

Zeyu Sun

Capital University of Economics and Business

Xiaohui Li

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Jing Xie

University of Macau, Faculty of Business Administration, Department of Finance and Business Economics

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Date Written: July 27, 2023

Abstract

We find that dividend paying firms exhibit better corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance in the following year than non-paying firms. We find that this effect can be explained by stakeholder relationship management through CSR, as dividend payout reflects the shareholder-stakeholder conflict. Specifically, for dividend payers, we find an increase in CSR performance after states adopt constituency statutes which encourage board’s attention on stakeholders, supporting a causal inference of the stakeholder relationship management’s effect on CSR. The increase in dividend payers’ CSR around the constituency statute adoption is more pronounced when management is friendlier to CSR, lending further support for the stakeholder relationship management channel. Our paper provides a novel finding that the CSR-dividend relation is attributed to the management of the interests of stakeholders, in addition to a typical explanation by the financial capability of dividend payers. Our results do not support the short-termism view of dividend and the view that CSR is an outcome of agency problem.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility; Sustainable Finance; Dividend Payout; Stakeholder Orientation; Financial Constraint; Short-Termism

JEL Classification: M4, M14, G14, G38

Suggested Citation:

Sun, Zeyu and Li, Xiaohui and Xie, Jing and Cheng, Agnes, How does dividend payout affect corporate social responsibility? A channel analysis (July 27, 2023). 2021 China International Conference in Finance (CICF) Conference; the 2020 CAFM Conference; the 2019 FMA (US) Conference, the 31st Asian-Pacific Conference on International Accounting Issues; the 2019 FMA Asia/Pacific Conference; 2017 Asian Financial Association (AsianFA) annual meeting; the 2017 , Journal of Financial Stability, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2914724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2914724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,441
RANK
134,833
2 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies