Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Big 4 Pricing and Firm Size: The Differential Impact of Demand and Supply Shocks on Large and Small Clients

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Feb 2017 Last revised: 28 Mar 2017

Fatima Alali

California State University, Fullerton

Randal J. Elder

Syracuse University

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: February 9, 2016

Abstract

We investigate Big 4 pricing over the period 2000 to 2010. We classify the data into five periods: 2000-2001 as the pre-SOX period, 2002-2003 as the SOX period, 2004-2006 as the AS2 period, 2007 as the AS5 period, and 2008-2010 as the Great Recession period. These shocks to the audit market associated with these changes in auditing regulations and the economic environment have differential impacts on large clients and small clients.

The percentage of small clients using Big 4 auditors dropped significantly over these shocks while the percentage of large clients using Big 4 auditors experienced a large drop only from the SOX period to the AS2 period. We find that Big 4 pricing increases significantly from the pre-SOX period to the SOX period, and continues to increase significantly in the AS2 period. Big 4 pricing experienced a significant decline in the AS5 period and declined insignificantly in the Great Recession period. Big 4 small firm pricing decreased significantly in the AS2 period compared to the SOX period and in the Great Recession period compared to the AS5 period. We find that the Big 4 pricing for small clients is contingent on the nature of competition. The Big 4 charge small firms higher prices in the SOX period, AS5 period and Great Recession when competition is lower. Our paper provides a unique contribution as a comprehensive analysis of Big 4 pricing and Big 4 small firm pricing.

Keywords: Big 4 pricing, small firms, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, PCAOB AS2, PCAOB AS5, Great Recession

JEL Classification: G38

Suggested Citation:

Alali, Fatima A and Elder, Randy and Zhou, Jian, An Analysis of Big 4 Pricing and Firm Size: The Differential Impact of Demand and Supply Shocks on Large and Small Clients (February 9, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2914507 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2914507
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,479
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies