Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Practices of Family Firms in Europe and Firm Financial Performance

38 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2017

Krishna Reddy

University of Waikato - Department of Economics and Finance

Nirosha Wellalage

University of Waikato

Zhefu Wang

University of Waikato

Date Written: February 10, 2017

Abstract

This study has four key objectives as follows: first, to test how family-controlled firms are associated with firm performance in Europe; second, investigate whether the blockholding influences firm performance; third, to compare firm performance of active family controlled firms with passive family controlled firms; and finally, to analyse the relationship between family ownership and firm performance. Data for this study comprise listed firms from 16 countries in Europe for the period 2006 to 2015. Our sample comprises more than 34% of listed firms that are family-controlled. Our results show that family-controlled firms’ perform better than the nonfamily-controlled firms. However, blockholding tends to dampen firm performance, that is, especially when family control is greater than 40%, whereas, family control less than 30% tends to improve performance. Furthermore, firms that are active family controlled (family holding at least one of the top two officer positions) tends to have improve firm performance. These result suggest that family firm lowers the agency problem between the owners and managers, and active family control is good for family firm daily running.

Keywords: family-controlled firm, blockholding, active family control, passive family control, agency problem

JEL Classification: C51, D22

Suggested Citation:

Reddy, Krishna and Wellalage, Nirosha and Wang, Zhefu, Corporate Governance Practices of Family Firms in Europe and Firm Financial Performance (February 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2914735 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2914735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,885
RANK
272,962
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies