Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Follows the Unethical Leader? The Association between Followers' Personal Characteristics and Intentions to Comply in Committing Organizational Fraud

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2017 Last revised: 22 Feb 2017

Eric N. Johnson

University of Wyoming - Department of Accounting

Linda Kidwell

Nova Southeastern University

D. Jordan Lowe

Arizona State University (ASU)

Philip Reckers

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 16, 2017

Abstract

The role of followers in ﬁnancial statement fraud has not been widely examined, even though these frauds typically involve collusion between followers and destructive leaders. In a study with 140 MBA students in the role of followers, we examined whether two follower personality traits were associated with behavioral intentions to comply with the demands of an unethical chief executive ofﬁcer (CEO) to be complicit in committing financial statement fraud. These personality traits are (1) self-sacriﬁcing self-enhancement (SSSE), a form of mal-adaptive narcissism characterized by seemingly altruistic behaviors that are actually intended to boost self-esteem and (2) proactivity, a trait characterized by behaviors reflecting efforts to positively change one’s environment. As predicted, follower SSSE was positively associated with follower behavioral intentions to comply with CEO pressure to commit fraud, while follower proactivity was negatively associated with fraud compliance intentions. Also, as predicted, follower SSSE interacted with follower proactivity, such that followers high in SSSE and high (low) in proactivity reported greater intentions to resist (comply with) pressure from the unethical CEO to commit fraud compared to low-SSSE followers. Implications for future research and corporate governance are discussed.

Keywords: Unethical Leaders, Susceptible Followers, Self-Sacrificing Self-Enhancement, Proactivity, Financial Statement Fraud

JEL Classification: M41, M49, L20

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Eric N. and Kidwell, Linda and Lowe, D. Jordan and Reckers, Philip, Who Follows the Unethical Leader? The Association between Followers' Personal Characteristics and Intentions to Comply in Committing Organizational Fraud (January 16, 2017). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2915508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple regression: Testing and interpreting interactions Posted: 1991
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 211 Posted: 1991
Crossref
S Akhtar , A Varma
Sacrifice: Psychodynamic, cultural and clinical aspects
The American Journal of Psychoanalysis , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 117 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J H Amernic , R J Craig
Accounting as a facilitator of extreme narcissism
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 96 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 93 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,609
RANK
277,353
2 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies