Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Board Composition Have an Impact on CSR Reporting? A Literature Review

Posted: 15 Feb 2017

Patrick Velte

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: February 14, 2017

Abstract

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting plays a key role in stakeholder management, particularly in light of the increased demand for non-financial reporting after the financial crisis of 2008–09. This literature review evaluates 51 empirical studies that concentrate on the influence of several board composition variables on the quantity, quality and assurance of CSR reporting. We briefly introduce the theoretical and research framework that underpins current empirical studies in this field. This is followed by a discussion of the main variables of board composition: (1) committees (audit and CSR committees), (2) board independence, (3) board expertise, (4) CEO duality, (5) board diversity (gender and foreign diversity), (6) board activity, and (7) board size. We then summarize the key findings, discuss the limitations of the existing research and offer useful recommendations for researchers, firm practice and Regulators.

Keywords: Board Composition; CSR Reporting; Board Independence; Board Expertise; CEO Duality; Board Diversity; Board Activity; Board Size

JEL Classification: M42; G34

Suggested Citation:

Velte, Patrick, Does Board Composition Have an Impact on CSR Reporting? A Literature Review (February 14, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2916728
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,513
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies