Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monetary Conformation of Corporate Governmentality IV: International Treaties (Conclusion)

Int. J. Critical Accounting, Vol. 8, Nos. 5/6, 2016

5 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2017

Eduardo Rivera Vicencio

Autonomous University of Barcelona - Faculty of Economics and Business Studies

Omar Garcia

University of Seville

Jose Romero Bravo

University of Granada

Date Written: February 13, 2017

Abstract

This paper describes the formation of international treaties as an integral part of the relationships that develop in the monetary system. In these relationships of the monetary system there are relationships between States, which are relationships between big companies operating from certain States with key global currencies and with others normally economically weaker States and/or dependent on the strongest currencies in the monetary system. This conformation of the relationships of the monetary system is framed within the Theory of Corporate Governmentality or the theory of government of large corporations, characterised by the concentration of wealth and ownership of income present and future, with backed debt-money generated by the financial system, which has supported this concentration of wealth. This is how international treaties are part of the elements of submission and domination by big companies to certain States or groups of States that end up imposing certain internal changes, with significant loss of sovereignty and with the complicity of economic powers and local politicians in these States, plus the complicity of international organisations, also subject to this corporate governmentality.

Suggested Citation:

Rivera Vicencio, Eduardo and Garcia, Omar and Romero Bravo, Jose, Monetary Conformation of Corporate Governmentality IV: International Treaties (Conclusion) (February 13, 2017). Int. J. Critical Accounting, Vol. 8, Nos. 5/6, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2916089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,070
RANK
819,493
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies