Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Certification of Audit Committee Effectiveness: Evidence from a One-Time Regulatory Event in China

Journal of International Accounting Research, Summer 2021, Vol. 20, No. 2, pp. 1-23

51 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2017 Last revised: 17 Sep 2021

Hsihui Chang

Drexel University

Xin Chen

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Antai College of Economics and Management

Agnes Cheng

Hong Kong Polytechnic University; University of Oklahama

Nan Zhou

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Date Written: February 15, 2017

Abstract

The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) launched the Campaign for Strengthening Corporate Governance of Public Companies in 2007. As part of this pilot program, public firms were required to report to the CSRC whether their boards had established audit committees and whether these audit committees operated effectively. Using this unique one-time regulatory event in China, we examine whether it is informative for firms to certify the effectiveness of their audit committees. Through analyzing hand-collected data from the campaign reports filed with the CSRC, we find that firms with certified audit committee effectiveness are associated with less earnings management and are less likely to have modified audit opinions and delayed filings. Thus, our findings suggest that certification of audit committee effectiveness provides a firm an opportunity to credibly signal that its audit committee functions in substance rather than in appearance.

Keywords: Audit committee effectiveness; Certification; Earnings management; Audit opinions; Delayed filings

JEL Classification: M41; M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Hsihui and Chen, Xin and Cheng, Agnes and Zhou, Nan, Certification of Audit Committee Effectiveness: Evidence from a One-Time Regulatory Event in China (February 15, 2017). Journal of International Accounting Research, Summer 2021, Vol. 20, No. 2, pp. 1-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2917356 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2917356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,257
RANK
244,478
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies