Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings per Share Targets and CEO Incentives

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 17-09

59 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2017 Last revised: 26 Dec 2023

Chris Armstrong

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Jacky Chau

Shenzhen Technology University

Christopher D. Ittner

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Jason J. Xiao

SUNY at Binghamton - School of Management

Date Written: December 17, 2023

Abstract

We examine differences in CEOs’ achievement of earnings per share (EPS) targets related to (1) analysts’ forecasts and (2) internal cash bonus payouts. Our focus on firms with different benchmarks for the same performance metric enables us to assess the relative importance of the incentives that each EPS target provides based on its revealed achievement. Most CEOs meet analysts’ final consensus EPS forecasts but are unlikely to meet bonus EPS targets that exceed forecasted EPS. Nearly all CEOs receive some EPS-based cash bonus, even when missing the forecast. Moreover, CEOs with bonus targets that are easier to achieve than the consensus forecast tend to receive more annual pay, suggesting that boards often set more achievable EPS targets to provide extra compensation to CEOs while maintaining the appearance of pay-for-performance. Our results highlight the importance of considering both types of EPS targets simultaneously when assessing their respective incentive properties.

Keywords: earnings per share (EPS); earnings targets; CEO incentives; bonus contracts; analysts' forecasts; meet or beat

JEL Classification: M12; M40; M41; J33

Suggested Citation:

Armstrong, Chris S. and Chau, Yuen-Kit and Ittner, Christopher D. and Xiao, Jason J., Earnings per Share Targets and CEO Incentives (December 17, 2023). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Simon Business School Working Paper No. FR 17-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2919478 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2919478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
A Ali , W Zhang
CEO tenure and earnings management
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 59 , p. 60 - 79 Posted: 2015
R Banker , R Huang , R Natarajan
Incentive contracting and the value relevance of earnings and cash flows
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , p. 647 - 678 Posted: 2009
E Bartov , D Givoly , C Hayn
The rewards to meeting or beating earnings expectations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , p. 173 - 204 Posted: 2002
O Baumann , M Mahlendorf , Z Wu
Feedback and foresight: adapting to the asymmetric ratcheting of external goals , volume 21 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,426
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,528
RANK
31,266
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies