Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of IFRS, Analysts and ADR on Voluntary Disclosure of Brazilian Public Companies

Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Feb 2017

Jose Elias Almeida

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American) - Robert C. Vackar College of Business and Entrepreneurship

Herbert Rodrigues

Espírito Santo Federal University

Date Written: November 16, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the effects of the interactions among IFRS adoption, analyst coverage and cross-listings in the U.S. on the voluntary disclosure of Brazilian public companies. We document a significant positive shift on voluntary disclosure incentives among cross-listed firms from the IFRS pre-adoption period to post-adoption period. We also find that analyst coverage has positive association with voluntary disclosure over IFRS adoption process, however the interaction between IFRS adoption and analysts affects positively only environmental and social disclosure. Our results have some implications to regulators, investors and practitioners.

Keywords: IFRS, Analysts, ADR, Voluntary Disclosure, Brazil, Cross-Listing

JEL Classification: M41, M48, D82, G18, G38

Suggested Citation:

Almeida, Jose Elias and Rodrigues, Herbert, Effects of IFRS, Analysts and ADR on Voluntary Disclosure of Brazilian Public Companies (November 16, 2016). Journal of International Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2921406
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,308
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies