Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Critical Leadership Qualities for Good Corporate Governance

Posted: 24 Feb 2017

Professor (Dr.) U.L.T.P. Gunasekare

University of Kelaniya

Date Written: January 11, 2017

Abstract

Corporate governance is a process that aims to allocate corporate resources in a manner that maximizes value for all stakeholders – shareholders, investors, employees, customers, suppliers, environment and the community at large and holds those at the helms to account by evaluating their decisions on transparency, inclusivity, equity and responsibility. Corporate Leadership need to be attentive in effecting good corporate governance and for this purpose they should possess specific leadership characteristics. The goal of this paper is to analyze the concept of good governance and the concept of leadership to propose specific leadership characteristics to strengthen good corporate governance. This study is significant in recruiting corporate leaders, training and motivating them for the betterment of the good corporate governance in the business world today. Scientific literature analysis was the main methodology employed in this regard and it is indicated that competence, accountability, integrity, relationships, values and steadiness are essential leadership qualities in effecting good corporate governance.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Leadership qualities, Corporate leadership, Competence, Accountability, Integrity, Relationships, Values, Steadiness

Suggested Citation:

Gunasekare, U.L.T.P., Critical Leadership Qualities for Good Corporate Governance (January 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2922424
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,471
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Models of Leadership eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies