Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Debt Composition and Lax Screening in the Corporate Bond Market

International Review of Economics & Finance, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2017 Last revised: 20 Nov 2017

Uri Benzion

Western Galilee College - Department of Economics

Koresh Galil

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev - Department of Economics

Eyal Lahav

The Open University of Israel

Offer Shapir

New York University (NYU) - New York University (NYU), Shanghai

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

Corporate bond markets may suffer from investors’ lack of competence in screening out low-quality issuers. We use data from the Israeli capital market in 1999-2009 to investigate the quality of corporate bond issuers and the role of the institutional investors in the screening process in the corporate bond market. The findings suggest that higher quality firms were more likely to issue bonds, but firms of lower quality tended to raise a higher fraction of their debt through bond issuance. Firms with higher proportion of their debt in bonds out had also a higher tendency to default. Institutional investors intensively funded firms with higher share of bonds in their long-term debt despite their lower quality, and therefore were partially responsible for the lax screening in the corporate bond market.

Keywords: Corporate Bonds, Debt Composition, Credit Rating, Emerging Market, Institutional Investors

JEL Classification: G23, G24, G32

Suggested Citation:

Benzion, Uri and Galil, Koresh and Lahav, Eyal and Shapir, Offer, Debt Composition and Lax Screening in the Corporate Bond Market (October 1, 2017). International Review of Economics & Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2922965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2922965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Rohmini Indah Lestari
The Role of Monitoring and Bonding Mechanisms of Good Corporate Governance Towards Banks Performance
Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews, 2020 · 9 Pages · Posted: 16 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 184
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xiaoqian Zhang
Marketization vs. Market Chase: Insights from Implicit Government Guarantees
Zhang, X. Q., and Wang, Z. W., 2020, Marketization vs. Market Chase: Insights from Implicit Government Guarantees, International Review of Economics and Finance, Vol.69, pp435-455. · 51 Pages · Posted: 4 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 47
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rohmini Indah Lestari
The Role of Monitoring and Bonding Mechanisms of Good Corporate Governance Towards Banks Performance
Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews, 2020 · 9 Pages · Posted: 16 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 184
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xiaoqian Zhang
Marketization vs. Market Chase: Insights from Implicit Government Guarantees
Zhang, X. Q., and Wang, Z. W., 2020, Marketization vs. Market Chase: Insights from Implicit Government Guarantees, International Review of Economics and Finance, Vol.69, pp435-455. · 51 Pages · Posted: 4 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 47
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,287
RANK
819,493
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies