Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did the 1998 Merger of Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand Increase Audit Quality?

Contemporary Accounting Research (Summer 2017), 34(2): 1071-1102.

Posted: 27 Feb 2017 Last revised: 28 Apr 2018

Jong-Hag Choi

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Seil Kim

Baruch College, City University of New York

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: February 24, 2017

Abstract

We examine the effects of the 1998 merger of Price Waterhouse (PW) and Coopers & Lybrand (CL) on the audit quality of the merged firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) at both the firm- and office-levels, where audit quality is surrogated by the auditor’s propensity to issue a going concern opinion, clients’ likelihood of meeting or beating analysts’ earnings forecasts, and clients’ accrual quality. At the firm-level, we find that the merger increased audit quality for PwC relative to the audit quality of the other Big N firms. At the office-level, our findings, albeit mixed, collectively suggest that the improvement in firm-level audit quality was likely driven by the improvement in audit quality at PwC’s overlapping offices, i.e., offices in cities where both PW and CL had separate offices prior to the merger. Further, our findings suggest that although the PW/CL merger increased auditor concentration in local audit markets with PwC overlapping offices, the merger improved (rather than hurt) audit quality in those markets. Overall, our study contributes to the extant sparse literature on the effect of Big N mergers on audit quality, and is of potential interest to regulators.

Keywords: Big N audit firm mergers; audit quality; overlapping office; office size

JEL Classification: L13, L51, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Jong and Kim, Seil and Raman, K. K., Did the 1998 Merger of Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand Increase Audit Quality? (February 24, 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research (Summer 2017), 34(2): 1071-1102., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2923194
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,904
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies