Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey

Financial Analysts Journal, 2018, Volume 74 Issue 3, pp. 87-103.

41 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2017 Last revised: 6 Feb 2020

Amir Amel-Zadeh

University of Oxford - Said Business School

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: July 1, 2017

Abstract

Using survey data from a sample of senior investment professionals from mainstream (i.e. not SRI funds) investment organizations we provide insights into why and how investors use reported environmental, social and governance (ESG) information. Relevance to investment performance is the most frequent motivation for use of ESG data followed by client demand and product strategy, bringing change in companies, and then ethical considerations. Important impediments to the use of ESG information are the lack of reporting standards and as a result lack of comparability, reliability, quantifiability and timeliness. Among the different ESG investment styles, negative screening is perceived as the least investment beneficial while full integration into stock valuation and engagement are considered more beneficial but they are all practiced with equal frequency. Current practices of different ESG styles, especially screening, are driven by product and ethical considerations. In contrast, integration is driven by relevance to investment performance. Future practices of ESG styles are driven by relevance to investment performance, bringing change in companies, and concerns about data reliability.

Keywords: ESG, Sustainability, Investment Performance, Nonfinancial, Disclosure

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G15, G23, G32, M1, M2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Amel-Zadeh, Amir and Serafeim, George, Why and How Investors Use ESG Information: Evidence from a Global Survey (July 1, 2017). Financial Analysts Journal, 2018, Volume 74 Issue 3, pp. 87-103., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2925310 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2925310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Amel-Zadeh
The Materiality of Nonfinancial Information: A Review of Theory and Empirical Evidence on Corporate Social Responsibility and Responsible Investing Posted: 2016
D Ariely , A Bracha , S Meier
Doing Good or Doing Well? Image Motivation and Monetary Incentives in Behaving Prosocially
American Economic Review , volume 99 , p. 544 - 555 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M L Barnett , R M Salomon
Beyond dichotomy: The curvilinear relationship between social responsibility and financial performance
Strategic Management Journal , volume 27 , issue 11 , p. 1101 - 1122 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Bauer , J Derwall , R Otten
The ethical mutual fund performance debate: New evidence from Canada
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 70 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 124 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20,414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
54,128
RANK
371
271 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies