Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drivers of Strategy and R&D Disclosures

21 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2017

Joanna Dyczkowska

Wroclaw University of Economics

Date Written: February 28, 2017

Abstract

The paper contributes to a stream of literature on voluntary disclosure of strategy and R&D issues in the annual reports and at the corporate websites of 69 Polish IT companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. It examines the associations between the voluntary disclosure index and a set of factors, including: company age and size, ownership dispersion, board size, corporate performance, leverage and growth prospects. The area of strategy and R&D disclosures has not been sufficiently explored in Polish conditions so far. There is also a lack of consistent regulations and clear guidelines of what should be disclosed. The Polish Accounting Act determines that management report should provide information on important R&D achievements, however it does not state clearly what is the minimum of information required. Therefore, the extent of disclosure depends on managerial discretion which may be shaped by several factors. The empirical evidence provided by this research study suggested that the level of strategy and R&D disclosure was dependent on company age. It was also validated that the larger companies and these listed on the primary market revealed more information on strategy and R&D issues. The study gave evidence that if market capitalization of the company was higher as compared to peer entities managers provided more narratives about strategy and R&D activities.

Keywords: IT companies, multiple regression, strategy and R&D disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Dyczkowska, Joanna, Drivers of Strategy and R&D Disclosures (February 28, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2925403 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2925403
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R Abdelbadie , T Elshandidy
Determinants of voluntary disclosure on R&D expenditures: Evidence from the UK R&D intensive industries
British Accounting and Finance Annual (BAFA) Conference Posted: 2013
I Abeysekera
The influence of board size on intellectual capital disclosure by Kenyan listed firms
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 504 - 518 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Associations between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: a meta-analysis
British Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M Allegrini , G Greco
Corporate boards, audit committees and voluntary disclosure: Evidence from Italian listed companies
Journal of Management and Governance , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 216 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,631
RANK
478,373
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies