Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Skirts on Board Impact Figures in Books?

88 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2017

Arshiya Tahir

Independent

Date Written: February 3, 2016

Abstract

After the financial crisis of 2007, a wave of discussion started that who sits on board is a critical factor in deciding the success and failure of a company. Research has found links between diverse boards and its positive effects on board inputs (Daniel Ferreira). Countries have rigorously passed laws and legislations without considering the fact there a complex relationship between women on board and performance and several other factors are needed to consider before making a strong assumption. The perceived importance of gender equality in board rooms (Nielson & Huse, 2010) do not points towards a clear opinion on whether gender equality in boardrooms will definitely yield better economic results (Hamdani & Buckley, 2010; Jonas Vob, 2015). A data for FTSE 100 companies was analyzed from 2006-2012 using Random Effects regression model. The results of this research does not support the business case of higher gender diversity for higher profits. This does not imply gender diversity should not be promoted. It is good to have gender diverse boards because of the positive behavioral impact they create on overall environment of an organization. Higher representation of women on board might not relate to the higher profits but diversified boards are critical in better decision making because of the benefit of diverse perspectives’. Equality should be promoted in work environment for ethical reasons and everyone should get a chance to make it to the top level if they are good enough.

Suggested Citation:

Tahir, Arshiya, Do Skirts on Board Impact Figures in Books? (February 3, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2926637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2926637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
M Harvey , Sriram Wegener , Naraynan
The Bottom Line: corporate performance and Women's Representation on Boards Posted: 2007
Shamsul Abdullah , Ku Nor Izah Ku Ismail , Lilac Nachum
Does Having Women on Boards Create Value? The Impact of Societal Perceptions and Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets
Pages: 41 Posted: 16 Dec 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm value and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,695
RANK
672,649
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies