Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study of the Effects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Sec and National Stock Exchange(S) Rules on Audit Committee Alignment

2006. Managerial Auditing Journal 21(2): 166-190.

Posted: 3 Mar 2017

Louis Braiott

Binghamton University

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

Purpose – To investigate the recommendations of the Blue Ribbon Committee (BRC) and the requirements of the Sarbanes‐Oxley Act (SOX) on audit committee alignment.

Design/methodology/approach – Using a unique set of hand collected data on audit committees for a sample of 129 firms during 1999, 2000, and 2002. This study is separated into two phases: the first phase of the study investigates the impact of the recommendations of the BRC on improving the effectiveness of audit committee on audit committee alignment; the second phase of the study investigates the impact of the SOX on audit committee alignment.

Findings – For the BRC period, the results indicate that firms with audit committee alignment have larger total assets, have higher leverage and firms with audit committee alignment are more likely listed in NASDAQ. For the SOX period, the evidence suggests that firms with audit committee alignment are more likely to be associated with larger audit committee, higher directors' compensation, higher audit committee independence, and more audit committee meetings. Also audit committee alignment is more likely to occur in NASDAQ firms. The evidence also shows that firms experiencing audit committee alignment in 2002 are associated with less earnings management (EM) and less increase in EM.

Research limitations/implications – This study shows that how boards of directors aligned their audit committees in response to the recommendations of the BRC and the requirements of the SOX.

Practical implications – Our paper should be of interest to managers, audit committees, boards of directors, and regulators who focus on audit committees.

Originality/value – This paper contributes to the auditing literature by showing how audit committees changed in response to recommendations of the BRC and the SOX. It also contributes to the literature by showing that firms experiencing audit committee alignment engage less in EM.

Keywords: Blue Ribbon Committee (BRC), Sarbanes‐Oxley Act (SOX), audit committee alignment

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Braiott, Louis and Zhou, Jian, An Exploratory Study of the Effects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Sec and National Stock Exchange(S) Rules on Audit Committee Alignment (2006). 2006. Managerial Auditing Journal 21(2): 166-190. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2926062
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,343
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies