Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Ambiguity in an Auditing Standard on Auditor Independence: Evidence from Nonaudit Fees and SOX 404 Opinions

Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics (April 2017), 13(1): 37-51.

Posted: 3 Mar 2017 Last revised: 6 Apr 2017

Chan Li

University of Kansas

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Lili Sun

University of North Texas - Department of Accounting

Da Wu

University of North Texas, Department of Accounting, Students

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

We examine the relation between nonaudit fees and SOX 404 opinions on the effectiveness of a client’s internal control over financial reporting. We find a negative association between nonaudit fees and the auditor’s propensity to issue an adverse SOX 404 opinion during 2004-2006 (when AS2 was the applicable standard), but not in 2007 or 2008 (when AS5 was the applicable standard). Our results hold when we control for office size and time trend and examine tax and nontax nonaudit fees separately. These findings suggest that AS5 reduced ambiguity relative to AS2 and improved auditor independence. Our paper contributes to two literature streams: (1) the sparse literature on the adverse effects associated with ambiguity (lack of precision) in an auditing standard (Willekens and Simunic 2007; Ye and Simunic 2013), and (2) the AS5 literature by documenting that AS5 contributed to a more effective audit via greater auditor independence.

Keywords: Nonaudit fees; SOX 404 audit opinions; Auditor independence; Engagement risk; Ambiguity in AS2.

JEL Classification: M42, M48, L13, L51

Suggested Citation:

Li, Chan and Raman, K. K. and Sun, Lili and Wu, Da, The Effect of Ambiguity in an Auditing Standard on Auditor Independence: Evidence from Nonaudit Fees and SOX 404 Opinions (2017). Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics (April 2017), 13(1): 37-51., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2926503
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,237
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies