Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
JPMorgan - A Trifecta of Off-the-Rails FCPA Enforcement

12 Bloomberg Law White Collar Crime Report 201

8 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2017

Mike Koehler

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 3, 2017

Abstract

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act has specific elements that must be met in order for there to be a violation. However, with increasing frequency it appears that the Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission have transformed FCPA enforcement into a free-for-all corporate ethics statute in which any conduct the enforcement agencies find objectionable is fair game to extract a multi-million dollar settlement from a risk-averse corporation.

An example is the $202.6 million FCPA enforcement action against JPMorgan Chase & Co. based on alleged improper hiring and internship practices in the Asia-Pacific region. After discussing the main features of the problematic enforcement action, this article highlights why the SEC’s enforcement action finding violations of the FCPA’s anti-bribery, books and records and internal controls provisions represents a trifecta of off-the-rails FCPA enforcement and why anyone who values the rule of law should be alarmed.

Keywords: FCPA, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

Suggested Citation:

Koehler, Mike, JPMorgan - A Trifecta of Off-the-Rails FCPA Enforcement (March 3, 2017). 12 Bloomberg Law White Collar Crime Report 201, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2927327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
496
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,170
RANK
130,913
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies