Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Hidden Costs of Being Public: Evidence from Multinational Firms Operating in an Emerging Market

Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2017 Last revised: 5 Oct 2020

Pablo Slutzky

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Date Written: January 20, 2020

Abstract

This paper studies how firms deal with business regulations that limit their operations. I first exploit a natural experiment to show that the ownership structure of a firm affects its degree of compliance with regulations, with publicly listed firms complying more than privately held ones. Then I show that this differential compliance imposes a burden on listed firms that helps explain the patterns of M&A activity. When the level of market regulations increases, private firms acquire listed ones, and listed firms stop acquiring private ones. These results uncover an additional cost faced by listed companies, identify a new driver of M&A transactions, and show evidence that high levels of regulation lead to opaque corporate structures.


Keywords: Mergers and Acquisitions, Stock Market Listing, Ownership Structure

JEL Classification: G32, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Slutzky, Pablo, The Hidden Costs of Being Public: Evidence from Multinational Firms Operating in an Emerging Market (January 20, 2020). Journal of Financial Economics (JFE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928711 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2928711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
G S Becker
Crime and punishment: An economic approach. The Journal of Political Economy pp , p. 169 - 217 Posted: 1968
A B Bernard , J B Jensen , P K Schott
Transfer pricing by US-based multinational firms Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Busse , C Hefeker
Political risk, institutions and foreign direct investment
European Journal of Political Economy , volume 23 , p. 397 - 415 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
515
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,504
RANK
125,072
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies