Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Litigation Risk and the Regulation of Non-GAAP Reporting

48 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2017 Last revised: 9 Oct 2019

Richard A. Cazier

University of North Texas

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Kenneth J. Merkley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

John Treu

West Virginia University - College of Business & Economics

Date Written: February 1, 2017

Abstract

The SEC has recently raised renewed concerns about firms’ reporting of adjusted (non-GAAP) earnings metrics. Regulators have significant interest in understanding the factors that help constrain non-GAAP reporting. We first provide evidence on the relation between securities litigation risk and firms’ propensity to report non-GAAP earnings. We then provide evidence on how this relation is moderated by the regulation of non-GAAP disclosure under Reg G. Using a plausibly exogenous litigation shock based on a U.S. circuit court ruling, we find a robust negative relation between litigation risk and non-GAAP reporting prior to the passage of Reg G. This negative relation suggests that, in the absence of rules-based regulation of non-GAAP reporting, litigation risk helps to constrain non-GAAP disclosure. However, our evidence suggests that the subsequent regulation of non-GAAP disclosure has decreased the sensitivity of non-GAAP disclosure to litigation risk. Specifically, we find that differences in non-GAAP reporting across judicial circuits are diminished and the negative association between litigation risk and non-GAAP reporting is significantly attenuated following the implementation of Reg G. Our results are consistent with claims that Reg G has had the unintended consequence of shielding firms’ non-GAAP disclosures from litigation risk by creating a de facto “safe harbor” for non-GAAP disclosure. Finally, we use our quasi-natural-experimental setting to validate a new proxy for circuit-specific litigation risk that future researchers can employ in any setting.

Keywords: Non-GAAP Disclosure, Litigation Risk, Regulation

JEL Classification: M48, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cazier, Richard A. and Christensen, Theodore E. and Merkley, Kenneth J. and Treu, John, Litigation Risk and the Regulation of Non-GAAP Reporting (February 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928260 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2928260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
A Arya , J Glover , B Mittendorf , G Narayanamoorthy
Unintended consequences of regulating disclosures: The case of Regulation Fair Disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 243 - 252 Posted: 2005
S Baginksi , J Hassell , M Kimbrough
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economically efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
J Bentley , T Christensen , K Gee , B Whipple
Disentangling managers' and analysts' non-GAAP reporting incentives
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 56 , issue 4 , p. 1039 - 1081 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
872
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,391
RANK
63,247
19 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies