Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legal and Accounting Regulatory Framework for Corporate Groups: Implications for Insolvency in Group Operations

Company and Securities Law Journal, (1998) Volume 16, 424-450

Posted: 9 Mar 2017

Anne Wyatt

Deakin University

Rosalind F Mason

Queensland University of Technology - Faculty of Law

Date Written: 1998

Abstract

This article takes a cross-disciplinary approach to examine how the current legal and accounting regulatory frameworks present problems for an equitable, orderly administration of the insolvent company within a corporate group. It is proposed that the Australian legal and accounting frameworks do not provide specific, systematic solutions for ongoing operation of corporate groups and also their administration in liquidation. Further, that corporate, legal and accounting regulation are closely intertwined but lack consonance. The discrepancies between legal and accounting regulation have an adverse impact on the relevance and usefulness of financial information, particularly when insolvency strikes. Suggested reforms include explicit recognition of corporate groups in the Corporations Law, joint development of common precepts within law and accounting regulation, and statutory provisions facilitating a group solution in the event of insolvency.

Suggested Citation:

Wyatt, Anne and Mason, Rosalind F, Legal and Accounting Regulatory Framework for Corporate Groups: Implications for Insolvency in Group Operations (1998). Company and Securities Law Journal, (1998) Volume 16, 424-450, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2929208
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,052
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies