Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Level of Disclosing Intellectual Capital in the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries

International Research Journal of Finance and Economics, Issue 159, January 2017

10 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2017 Last revised: 13 Mar 2017

Abdalmuttaleb Musleh Al-Sartawi

Ahlia University

Date Written: January 8, 2017

Abstract

Intellectual Capital (IC) is considered as a management style in operating a firm’s assets. The level of disclosing intellectual capital in the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries differs from one company to the other due to its voluntary nature and the lack of appropriate regulations. Therefore, this study aims to measure the level of disclosing intellectual capital in the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries. Extensive literature review was carried out and a checklist of 78 items was developed to measure the level of disclosing intellectual capital for the companies that are listed in the Gulf Cooperation Council Bourses. The findings show that the overall level of intellectual capital disclosed in the Gulf Cooperation Council is 73% but it varies across the sampled firms according to countries and industry type. The study recommends that the GCC Bourses have to develop a formal guideline for intellectual capital disclosure in order to create harmony in disclosing information and equality between users of financial information and at the same time to enhance firms’ value.

Keywords: Intellectual Capital; Human Capital; Structural Capital; Relational Capital; Voluntary Disclosure

JEL Classification: O34; E24; G32; E22

Suggested Citation:

Musleh Al-Sartawi, Abdalmuttaleb, The Level of Disclosing Intellectual Capital in the Gulf Cooperation Council Countries (January 8, 2017). International Research Journal of Finance and Economics, Issue 159, January 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2929414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
F Abdulsalam , H Al-Qaheri , R Al-Khayyat
The intellectual capital performance of Kuwaiti banks: an application of VAIC model Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Alhazaimeh , R Palaniappan , Almsafir , M
The Impact of Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure on Voluntary Disclosure in Annual Reports among Listed Jordanian Companies
Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences , volume 129 , p. 341 - 348 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Husamaldeen Al-Khadash , Al-Sartawi , Abdalmuttaleb
The Capability of Sarbanes-Oxley Act in Enhancing the Independence of the Jordanian Certified Public Accountant and its Impact on Reducing the Audit Expectation Gap" An Empirical Investigation from the Perspectives of Auditors and Institutional Investors
Jordan Journal of Business Administration , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 294 - 315 Posted: 2010
Sara Almatrooshi , Abdalmuttaleb Al-Sartawi , Zakeya Sanad
Do Audit Committee Characteristics Of Bahraini Listed Companies Have An Effect On The Level Of Internet Financial Reporting?
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 130 - 146 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
945
RANK
478,373
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies