Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overstating Moral Hazard: Lessons from Two Decades of Banking Crises

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2017/003

76 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2017 Last revised: 17 Mar 2017

Douglas W. Arner

The University of Hong Kong; The University of Hong Kong - Faculty of Law

Emilios Avgouleas

University of Edinburgh - School of Law

Evan Gibson

The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Law School

Date Written: March 8, 2017

Abstract

Over the past two decades a variety of banking system rescue approaches have been used, including in the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the 2008 global financial crisis, and the 2010 European debt crisis. By analysing the resolution of these crises as well as the approach to addressing bad loans in the People’s Republic of China, this paper provides a new perspective on the common belief that bailouts are invariably harmful to public funds or excessively conducive to moral hazard. Depending on the form of bailout, bank restructuring, and fiscal backstop, resolutions can be an effective means to restore a banking system. This paper argues that in a systemic financial crisis, a combination of balance sheet restructuring and the use of asset management companies to deal with non-performing loans is often the best choice. However, a fully-fledged resolution that triggers the bail-in procedure remains the best approach for non-systemically important financial institution failures which take place outside of systemic crises, namely when the failure is idiosyncratic.

Keywords: Financial Crisis; Bank Rescues; Bailouts; Asset Management Companies; Moral Hazard

JEL Classification: G21, G28, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Arner, Douglas W. and Avgouleas, Emilios and Gibson, Evan Corby, Overstating Moral Hazard: Lessons from Two Decades of Banking Crises (March 8, 2017). University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Research Paper No. 2017/003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2929574 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2929574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
249 References
EU Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD): Frequently Asked Questions , volume 1 Posted: 2014-04
EU Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD): Frequently Asked Questions Posted: 2014-04
Chapter
Crossref
European Central , Bank
Systemic Implications of the European bail-in tool: a multi-layered network analysis
Financial Stability Review -Special features Posted: 2016-05
Load more
1 Citations
Fabiano Colombini
Raising Capital or Improving Risk Management and Efficiency?
, p. 43 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
479
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,362
RANK
136,540
1 Citations
249 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies