Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects and the Mechanisms of Board Gender Diversity: Evidence from Financial Manipulation

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2930132

43 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2017 Last revised: 12 Jan 2018

Aida Sijamic Wahid

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto - Accounting

Date Written: December 22, 2017

Abstract

This study examines the impact of board gender diversity on financial misconduct. The findings suggest firms with gender-diverse boards commit fewer financial reporting mistakes and engage in less fraud. The findings hold after accounting for the potentially endogenous nature of board demographic characteristics via instrumental variable approach. Furthermore, the findings are consistent in pre- and post-regulation (Sarbanes-Oxley) periods and hold for firms with good and bad governance. The findings do not seem driven by differences in effort or quality, in terms of independence and expertise, of female and male directors. The benefit derived from increasing the number of female directors on corporate boards seems to diminish at higher levels of gender diversity, indicating that impact of gender diversity on decreasing the likelihood of financial misconduct may be a result of a change to board group dynamics.

Keywords: Corporate governance, board of directors, gender, board composition, board diversity, accounting quality, restatement

JEL Classification: G10, G30, G38, J10, J16, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wahid, Aida Sijamic and Wahid, Aida Sijamic, The Effects and the Mechanisms of Board Gender Diversity: Evidence from Financial Manipulation (December 22, 2017). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2930132, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2930132 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2930132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
P A Gompers , J L Ishii , A Metrick
Corporate Governance and Equity Prices
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 118 , p. 107 - 155 Posted: 2003
Crossref
F A Gul , B Srinidhi , A C Ng
Does Board Gender Diversity Improve the Informativeness of Stock Prices?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 51 , p. 314 - 338 Posted: 2011
Crossref
K M Hennes , A J Leone , Brian P Miller
The Importance of Distinguishing Errors from Irregularities in Restatement Research: The Case of Restatements and CEO/CFO Turnover
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 1487 - 1519 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Hicks , D Tingley
Mediation: Stata module for causal mediation analysis and sensitivity analysis Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
736
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,090
RANK
79,351
36 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies