Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Correlates with Female Board Representation

Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming

22 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2017 Last revised: 24 Sep 2017

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Hendrik Rupertus

University of Bayreuth

Date Written: September 21, 2017

Abstract

Gender equality on boards is a global and highly politicized issue. To this day, there is considerable cross-country variation in female board representation. We examine institutional supply- and demand-side factors associated with this issue. Our results indicate that a societal climate of gender equality contributes to more women on boards, mainly through fostering the supply of suitable candidates. Therefore, the glass ceiling should be improved through a societal supply-side effort which needs to complement demand-side (quota) regulation.

Keywords: Board of Directors, Gender Equality, Institutional Environment

JEL Classification: G3, J16, M2

Suggested Citation:

Loy, Thomas R. and Rupertus, Hendrik, Institutional Correlates with Female Board Representation (September 21, 2017). Finance Research Letters, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2931186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2931186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R B Adams , T Kirchmaier
Barriers to boardrooms. Working Paper European Corporate Governance Institute Posted: 2015
S Bear , N Rahman , C Post
The impact of board diversity and gender composition on corporate social responsibility and firm reputation
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 97 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 221 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Blundell , S Bond
Initial conditions and moment restrictions in dynamic panel data models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 87 , p. 115 - 143 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,880
RANK
418,259
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies