Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Performance Targets in Annual Incentive Plans and Management Earnings Guidance

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming

64 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2017 Last revised: 12 Sep 2022

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Hojun Seo

Purdue University - Daniels School of Business

Jun Yang

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Daniel Sungyeon Kim

Chung-Ang University - College of Business & Economics

Jordan Martel

Indiana University Bloomington, Kelley School of Business

Date Written: March 11, 2017

Abstract

We study how corporate boards set earnings performance targets in CEOs’ annual incentive plans (AIPs) and the implications for strategic management earning guidance. We find that corporate boards rely on management and analyst information in setting the earnings performance targets, and the weight placed on each signal increases with its precision. We also find that management earnings guidance issued before compensation committee meetings (“event-window management forecast (MF)”) is more pessimistic than that issued by the same firm at other times. The pessimism in the event-window MF is more pronounced when the expected managerial benefits of having lower performance targets are greater. Ex post, the event-window MF pessimism is associated with higher bonus payouts to CEOs. We use a theoretical framework to illustrate how the use of earnings performance targets might drive our findings. This study highlights boards’ tradeoffs in designing executive compensation and the resulting managerial strategic disclosure.

Keywords: Annual Incentive Plans, Performance Targets, Management Earnings Guidance

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Martin, Xiumin and Seo, Hojun and Yang, Jun and Kim, Daniel Sungyeon and Martel, Jordan, Earnings Performance Targets in Annual Incentive Plans and Management Earnings Guidance (March 11, 2017). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2931372 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2931372
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
R B Adams , D Ferreira
A theory of friendly boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2007
C Aghamolla , T Hashimoto
Aggressive boards and CEO turnover
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 59 , issue 2 , p. 437 - 486 Posted: 2021
B B Ajinkya , M J Gift
Corporate managers' earnings forecasts and symmetrical adjustments of market expectations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 444 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,942
RANK
145,992
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies