Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Cooperatives Manage Earnings to Avoid Losses and Earnings Decreases?

19 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2017

Pedro Piccoli

Universidade Católica do Paraná (Universidade Católica do Paraná)

Vilmar Moreira

Pontifical Catholic University of Parana

June Alison Westarb Cruz

Pontifical Catholic University of Parana

Date Written: February 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the use of earnings management by cooperatives to avoid reporting losses or earnings decreases. Based on a unique dataset comprising quarterly financial statements reported by 66 Brazilian agricultural cooperatives between 2000 and 2015, our results show that cooperatives do indeed manage their results to avoid reporting decreases in earnings and small losses, more markedly in the latter case. This practice is more frequent in large cooperatives than in small ones and in more leveraged organizations. We also find that this practice decreases along with increased board size, which is inconsistent with the evidence for commercial firms. Our findings contribute to the fields of earnings management detection and corporate governance in cooperatives.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Earnings Discontinuity, Corporate Governance, Cooperative

JEL Classification: G30, G34, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Piccoli, Pedro and Moreira, Vilmar Rodrigues and Westarb Cruz, June Alison, Do Cooperatives Manage Earnings to Avoid Losses and Earnings Decreases? (February 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2932371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2932371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,461
RANK
366,257
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies