Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of Executive Focus on Support Activities: Evidence from Executive Influence on Firm Tax Strategy

Posted: 15 Mar 2017 Last revised: 17 Aug 2019

Adam J. Olson

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 16, 2019

Abstract

Should executives solely focus on core activities of the firm? Or is it beneficial to focus on both core and support activities? It could be the case that executives focused on support activities are attempting to multitask which will limit their accuracy and productivity. Alternatively, these executives focused on support activities could be obtaining synergies and knowledge spillover. Or it could be the case that multitasking limits and synergies both occur and vary according to situation or executive. Using executive influence on firm tax strategy as a proxy for executive focus on support activities, I find that executive focus on support activities is associated with poorer firm performance and negative executive labor market consequences. These results are partially moderated by executive ability, background, position, and year. Overall the results suggest that top executives perform best when focused solely on core activities. The results also suggest that executives should hire or contract competent individuals to focus on support activities.

Keywords: Support Activities, Executives, Tax Strategy

Suggested Citation:

Olson, Adam J., Consequences of Executive Focus on Support Activities: Evidence from Executive Influence on Firm Tax Strategy (August 16, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2932353 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2932353
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,118
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies