Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Implementation: Some Empirical Evidence from Large Australian Companies

Proceedings of the International Conference on Accounting Studies (ICAS 2014), 18-19 August 2014, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 164 ( 2014 ) 541 – 547

8 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2017

Saudah Ahmad

Universiti Utara Malaysia - School of Accountancy

Chew Ng

Griffith University - Griffith Business School

Lisa McManus

Charles Darwin University

Date Written: August 2014

Abstract

According to Economist Intelligence Unit (Economist Intelligence Unit Limited and SAS, 2008), risk management failure is one of the major triggers of the recent global financial crisis. Enterprise risk management (ERM), an organisation wide process which identifies potential adverse events and provides strategies to manage risks, has been suggested as an approach to combat the volume and complexities of the risks faced by today’s organisations (see, for example, Beasley et al. 2009). Despite of the recent emphasis given to risk management by the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), there is scant empirical evidence on ERM implementation among the Australian listed companies. This study aims to provide some evidence on the extent of ERM implementation among the Top 300 companies listed on ASX. Questionnaires were used to collect data for this study. The outcomes of the study show that the majority of the firms involved in the survey not only extensively implement ERM but also extensively embed ERM into their corporate strategic processes. Further, they have also implemented the system for more than five years. Potential limitation of these findings are acknowledged.

Keywords: Enterprise Risk Management (ERM); ERM Implementation; Corporate Governance; Chief Risk Officer (CRO)

JEL Classification: G32; G34; M41; M42

Suggested Citation:

Ahmad, Saudah and Ng, Chew and McManus, Lisa, Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Implementation: Some Empirical Evidence from Large Australian Companies (August 2014). Proceedings of the International Conference on Accounting Studies (ICAS 2014), 18-19 August 2014, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia , Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 164 ( 2014 ) 541 – 547 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2932715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
T Aabo , J R S Fraser , B J Simkins
The Rise and Evolution of the Chief Risk Officer: Enterprise Risk Management at Hydro One
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 62 - 75 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M S Beasley , B C Branson , B V Hancock
Rising Expectations
Journal of Accountancy , volume 205 , issue 4 Posted: 2008
M S Beasley , A Chen , K Nunez , L Wright
Working Hand in Hand: Balanced Scorecards and Enterprise Risk Management. Strategic Finance , volume 87 Posted: 2006
M S Beasley , R Clune , D R Hermanson
Enterprise risk management: An empirical analysis of factors associated with the extent of implementation
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 521 - 531 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
RANK
411,549
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies