Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Cuts, Merger Activity, and Shareholder Wealth

Forthcoming: Journal of Accounting and Economics

59 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2017 Last revised: 25 Mar 2020

Jennifer Blouin

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Eliezer M. Fich

Drexel University - Department of Finance; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Edward M. Rice

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Anh L. Tran

Bayes Business School (formerly Cass Business School), City University of London

Date Written: February 25, 2019

Abstract

We study the impact of the Domestic Production Activities Deduction (DPAD) on mergers and acquisitions. DPAD reduces corporate tax rates on income from work or goods made in the US. Results indicate that the quantity and quality of acquisition bids by DPAD-advantaged firms conform to the predictions of the neoclassical theory of the firm and the theory of financial constraints. Specifically, bids, particularly those cash-financed, increase substantially in industries with large DPAD-related tax cuts and for firms with financial constraints. Moreover, DPAD improves acquisition quality where acquirers and targets are likely to generate incremental DPAD tax benefits through their merger.

Keywords: Corporate Tax Deduction; Acquisitions; Firm Performance; Financial Constraints

JEL Classification: G34; H25; M48

Suggested Citation:

Blouin, Jennifer and Fich, Eliezer M. and Rice, Edward M. and Tran, Anh L., Corporate Tax Cuts, Merger Activity, and Shareholder Wealth (February 25, 2019). Forthcoming: Journal of Accounting and Economics, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2933136 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2933136
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
675
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,181
RANK
88,637
3 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies