Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Investment Horizon

Journal of Finance, Forthcoming

96 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2017 Last revised: 8 May 2018

Ferhat Akbas

University of Illinois at Chicago - College of Business Administration

Chao Jiang

University of South Carolina - Department of Finance

Paul D. Koch

Iowa State University - Finance Department; Iowa State University - Finance Department

Date Written: May 2, 2018

Abstract

We examine the relation between the investment horizons of insiders and the information content of their trading activity regarding future stock returns. We conjecture that an insider’s investment horizon establishes a benchmark for expected patterns of continued trading behavior, and thus helps to identify unexpected insider trades, which should be more informative in efficient markets. Consistent with this conjecture, the trades of short horizon insiders are both more unexpected and more informed than those of long horizon insiders, on average. Short horizon insiders and their firms also tend to display attributes that are associated with a greater focus on short-termism.

Keywords: Insider trading, investment horizon, unexpected insider trades, information asymmetry, short-termism

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G18

Suggested Citation:

Akbas, Ferhat and Jiang, Chao and Koch, Paul D., Insider Investment Horizon (May 2, 2018). Journal of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2934007 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2934007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
998
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,046
RANK
52,502
4 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies