Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing the Narrative: Investor Relations Officers and Corporate Disclosure

Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 17-015

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2934937

60 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2017 Last revised: 9 Feb 2018

Lawrence D. Brown

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Andrew C. Call

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Michael B. Clement

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2018

Abstract

Investor relations officers (IROs) play a central role in corporate communications with Wall Street. We survey 610 IROs at publicly traded U.S. companies and conduct 14 follow-up interviews to gain insights into the nature of their interactions with sell-side analysts and institutional investors, and to deepen our understanding of the role of IROs in corporate disclosure events. Three important themes emerge from our results: (i) the value, nature, and timing of private communication between IROs, analysts, and investors; (ii) the significant influence IROs have on corporate disclosures; and (iii) the degree of “theater” involved in public earnings conference calls. We explore numerous topics that IROs are uniquely suited to address, and we provide new insights into the investor relations, analyst, institutional investor, and disclosure literatures.

Keywords: investor relations, investor relations officers, sell-side analysts, institutional investors, disclosure

JEL Classification: G10, G23, G24, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Lawrence D. and Call, Andrew C. and Clement, Michael B. and Sharp, Nathan Y., Managing the Narrative: Investor Relations Officers and Corporate Disclosure (February 2018). Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 17-015, Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2934937, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2934937 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2934937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,634
RANK
13,998
98 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies