Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dividend Policy and Informativeness of Reported Earnings: Evidence from the MENA Region

International Review of Finance, Forthcoming

Posted: 20 Mar 2017

Omar Farooq

The American University in Cairo

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Siva Nathan

Georgia State University

Date Written: March 2017

Abstract

This paper documents that informativeness of reported earnings, measured by earnings–return relation, is an increasing function of dividend payout ratio in the Middle East and North Africa region during the period between 2003 and 2014. We argue that higher dividends reduce agency conflicts. Lower agency problems lead firms to disclose information more truthfully, thereby improving credibility of reported earnings. We also show that our results hold for various proxies of dividend policy.

Keywords: Dividend Policy, Reported Earnings, Information Asymmetries, Corporate Governance, Emerging Markets.

JEL Classification: G32

Suggested Citation:

Farooq, Omar and Shehata, Nermeen F. and Nathan, Siva, Dividend Policy and Informativeness of Reported Earnings: Evidence from the MENA Region (March 2017). International Review of Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2935316
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,397
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies