Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CFO Country of Origin and Accounting Quality. A Cross-Country Investigation

57 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2017 Last revised: 17 Jan 2018

Antonio Marra

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 16, 2018

Abstract

Prior research has analyzed accounting quality around the world only working on institutional differences mainly at country level. Little research has been devoted to top management cultural values (here defined as CFO’s country of origin), which has turned out to be able to generate unique results on firms’ outcomes. In this work, building a unique hand collected dataset based on 954 unique CFOs across Europe and 4,478 firm-year observations I investigate the effect of CFO country of origin on accounting quality in the European Union. My findings show first, as a validity test, that there is a CFO fixed effect on accounting quality also in a cross-country setting (i.e. outside the US). Then, I show that in the EU foreign CFOs are able to foster accounting quality relative to local peers. Moreover, working on economies clusters I find that CFOs working in insider economies, but born elsewhere (outside this area) are able to marginally improve accounting quality for the firm they work with. On the contrary, this does not apply if a CFO born in an insider economy works outside his area of birth. Finally, working on CFO turnover, I find that overall CFO changes have an effect on accruals quality level. Nonetheless, cross-sectional tests reveal that such changes are significant when CFO turnover happens from CFO born in a low (high) IP country to a CFO born in a high (low) IP country, where accounting quality improves (worsens).

Keywords: Accounting Quality, CFO, CFO culture, Country of Origin, Earnings quality

JEL Classification: M41, M40

Suggested Citation:

Marra, Antonio, CFO Country of Origin and Accounting Quality. A Cross-Country Investigation (January 16, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2935870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2935870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A Agrawal , J F Jaffe , J M Karpoff
Management Turnover and Governance Changes Following the Revelation of Fraud
Journal of Law & Economics , volume 42 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 309 - 342 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The Relative Informativeness of Accounting Disclosures in Different Countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 223 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ali , L-S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,486
RANK
464,511
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies