Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Related Party Transactions and Accounting Quality in Greece

Moataz El-Helaly, (2016),"Related party transactions and accounting quality in Greece", International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 24, Issue 4, pp. 375 - 390

29 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2017

Moataz El-Helaly

School of Business, The American University in Cairo

Date Written: October 1, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: This paper investigates the relationship between related party transactions (RPTs) and accounting quality for the firms listed on the Athens Stock Exchange (ASE).

Design: This paper compares accounting quality across two groups of firms. The first group contains firms that conduct material RPTs and the second group contains firms that do not conduct material RPTs. Accounting quality is measured using different proxies of earnings management. Four earnings management proxies are used, three metrics for earnings smoothing and one for managing earnings towards a target.

Findings: The results of the current study do not suggest that firms with significant RPTs exhibit less accounting quality compared to non-RPTs firms.

Research Implications: The results support the argument that RPTs are conventional transactions that are mainly conducted for business purposes.

Originality: This paper contributes to the literature by examining the effect of RPTs on accounting quality in Greece and whether firms that conduct RPTs exhibit less accounting quality or not.

Suggested Citation:

El-Helaly, Moataz, Related Party Transactions and Accounting Quality in Greece (October 1, 2016). Moataz El-Helaly, (2016),"Related party transactions and accounting quality in Greece", International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 24, Issue 4, pp. 375 - 390, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2937286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Abdul Wahab , E A Haron , H Lok , C L Yahya , S
Does corporate governance matter? Evidence form related party transactions in Malaysia
Advances in Financial Economics , volume 14 , p. 131 - 164 Posted: 2010
J Aharony , J Wang , H Yuan
Tunnelling as an incentive for earnings management during the IPO process in China
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in UK private firms: comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,572
RANK
521,283
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies