Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Board Diversity on Earnings Quality: An Empirical Study of Listed Firms in Vietnam

Hoang, T.C., Abeysekera, I. and Ma, S. 2017. The effect of board diversity on earnings quality: An empirical study of listed firms in Vietnam. Australian Accounting Review, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 220-232. DOI: 10.1111/auar. 12128

69 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2017 Last revised: 25 Aug 2018

Trang Hoang

Ton Duc Thang University

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Shiguang Ma

University of Wollongong - School of Accounting Economics and Finance

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Previous studies have established that firms’ effectiveness can differ based on the differences among directors within a board, and between boards. However, studies have yet to establish the effectiveness of the diverse attributes of the board on firms’ quality of earnings in an emerging market setting such as Vietnam. This study investigates the effect of board diversity on earnings quality in a sample of Vietnamese listed firms. The two dimensions of board diversity measures in this study cover a wide range of structural and demographic attributes of a board of directors, using a diversity-of-boards index (dissimilarities among firm boards, i.e., board structure) and a diversity-in-boards index (dissimilarities among directors within a board, i.e., demographic attributes of board members). Earnings quality is an aggregate measure compiled from four accounting-based measures of earnings quality: accruals quality, earnings persistence, earnings predictability, and earnings smoothness. We find a significant, positive linear relationship between diversity-of-boards and earnings quality; while the relationship between diversity-in-boards and earnings quality is non-linear, with a U-shaped curve.

Keywords: board of directors, diversity-of-boards, diversity-in-boards, earnings quality, Vietnam

JEL Classification: G3, M1, M4, J1

Suggested Citation:

Hoang, Trang and Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra and Ma, Shiguang, The Effect of Board Diversity on Earnings Quality: An Empirical Study of Listed Firms in Vietnam (2017). Hoang, T.C., Abeysekera, I. and Ma, S. 2017. The effect of board diversity on earnings quality: An empirical study of listed firms in Vietnam. Australian Accounting Review, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 220-232. DOI: 10.1111/auar. 12128, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2937488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
I Abeysekera
The Influence of Board Size on Intellectual Capital Disclosure by Kenyan Firms
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 11 , p. 504 - 522 Posted: 2010
Crossref
I Abeysekera
Role of Remuneration Committees in Narrative Human Capital Disclosure', Accounting and Finance , volume 52 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the Boardroom and Their Impact on Governance and Performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Anup Agrawal , Tareque Nasser
Blockholders on Boards and CEO Compensation, Turnover and Firm Valuation
Quarterly Journal of Finance, 2019 Forthcoming Pages: 69 Posted: 7 Aug 2009 Last revised: 26 Mar 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
447
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,165
RANK
148,252
9 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies