Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding the Japanese Keiretsu: Overlaps between Corporate Governance and Industrial Organization

Yale Law Journal, Vol. 102, No. 4, 1993

Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper

Harvard Public Law Working Paper

37 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2017

Ronald J. Gilson

Stanford Law School; Columbia Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Stanford Law School

Mark J. Roe

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: January 1, 1993

Abstract

We aim here for a better understanding of the Japanese keiretsu. Our essential claim is that to understand the Japanese system-banks with extensive investment in industry and industry with extensive cross-ownership-we must understand the problems of industrial organization, not just the problems of corporate governance. The Japanese system, we assert, functions not only to harmonize the relationships among the corporation, its shareholders, and its senior managers, but also to facilitate productive efficiency.

Keywords: contractual governance; corporate governance; cross-ownership; Japanese keiretsu;

JEL Classification: G21, G34, L14, L21, L23, L24

Suggested Citation:

Gilson, Ronald J. and Roe, Mark J., Understanding the Japanese Keiretsu: Overlaps between Corporate Governance and Industrial Organization (January 1, 1993). Yale Law Journal, Vol. 102, No. 4, 1993, Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper, Harvard Public Law Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2938089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
C Michael , Jensen
Corporate Control and the Politics of Finance
J. APPLIED CORP. FIN , volume 13 Posted: 1991
C Michael , Jensen
Active Investors, LBOs and the Privatization of Bankruptcy
J. APPLIED CORP. FIN Posted: 1989-02-01
Jensen
Transactions occurring after 1985 reflected changes in structure that made such privatization more tenuous
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,964
RANK
178,157
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Law School, John M. Olin Program in Law & Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies