Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance and Dividend Pay-Out Policy in UK Listed SMEs: The Effects of Corporate Board Characteristics

International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, 25(4), 459-483, 2017

33 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2017 Last revised: 18 Oct 2018

Mohamed Elmagrhi

University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield Business School, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH; Swansea University, School of Management; University of Huddersfield - Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Richard Crossely

University of Huddersfield, Business School, Students

John Kalimilo Malagila

University of Essex; Southampton Business School

Samuel Fosu

University of Sussex; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tien Vu

University of Huddersfield, Students

Date Written: March 21, 2017

Abstract

Purpose: This paper examines the extent to which corporate board characteristics influence the level of dividend pay-out ratio using a sample of UK small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) from 2010 to 2013 listed on the Alternative Investment Market.

Design/methodology/approach: The data is analysed by employing multivariate regression techniques, including estimating fixed effects, lagged effects and two-stage least squares regressions.

Findings: The results show that board size, the frequency of board meetings, board gender diversity and audit committee size have a significant relationship with the level of dividend pay-out. Audit committee size and board size have a positive association with the level of dividend pay-out, whilst the frequency of board meetings and board gender diversity has a significant negative relationship with the level of dividend pay-out. By contrast, the findings suggest that board independence and CEO role duality do not have any significant effect on the level of dividend pay-out.

Originality/value: This is one of the first attempts at examining the relationship between corporate governance and dividend policy in the UK’s Alternative Investment Market, with the analysis distinctively informed by agency theoretical insights drawn from the outcome and substitution hypotheses.

Keywords: corporate governance; corporate board characteristics; dividend pay-out policy; UK listed SMEs; outcome versus substitution hypothesis

JEL Classification: M34

Suggested Citation:

Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Ntim, Collins G. and Crossely, Richard and Malagila, John and Fosu, Samuel and Fosu, Samuel and Vu, Tien, Corporate Governance and Dividend Pay-Out Policy in UK Listed SMEs: The Effects of Corporate Board Characteristics (March 21, 2017). International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, 25(4), 459-483, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2938420 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2938420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
138 References
J Abor , V Fiador
Does corporate governance explain dividend policy in sub-Saharan Africa?
International Journal of Law and Management , volume 55 , issue 3 , p. 201 - 225 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C Adil , N Zafar , N Yaseen
Empirical analysis of determinants of dividend pay-out: Profitability and liquidity
Interdisciplinary Journal of Contemporary Research in Business , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 289 - 300 Posted: 2011
T Afza , H H Mirza
Do mature companies pay more dividends? Evidence from Pakistani stock market
Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 152 - 161 Posted: 2011
V Aivazian , L Booth , S Cleary
Do emerging market firms follow different dividend policies from U.S. firms?
Journal of Financial Research , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 371 - 387 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
8 Citations
Aws Alhares , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Ibrahem Alshbili , Maha Moustafa
Board Structure and Corporate R&D Intensity: Evidence from Forbes Global 2000
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 28 No. 3 · 25 Pages · Posted: 24 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 102
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Omar Al Farooque , Ali Hamid , Lan Sun
Does Governance Structure Have a Say on Dividend? Evidence from Australian Listed Firms
30 Pages · Posted: 7 Feb 2020 · Downloads: 121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohammed A. Alhossini , Collins G. Ntim , Alaa Zalata
Corporate Board Committees and Corporate Outcomes: An International Systematic Literature Review and Agenda for Future Research
International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 91 Pages · Posted: 24 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 518
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thi Hong Hahn Nguyen , Collins G. Ntim , John Malagila
Women on Corporate Boards and Corporate Financial and Non-financial Performance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda
Nguyen, T.H.H., Ntim, C.G., & Malagila, J. (2020). ‘Women on corporate boards and corporate financial and non-financial performance: A systematic literature review and future research agenda’, International Review of Financial Analysis, Forthcoming., · 60 Pages · Posted: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 482
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,977
RANK
146,772
8 Citations
138 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies