Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Risk Disclosures Matter When it Counts? Evidence from the Swiss Franc Shock

Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper

55 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2017 Last revised: 12 Oct 2020

Luzi Hail

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Maximilian Muhn

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

David Oesch

University of Zurich

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 8, 2020

Abstract

We examine the relation between disclosure quality and information asymmetry among market participants following an exogenous shock to macroeconomic risk. In 2015 the Swiss National Bank abruptly announced that it would abandon the longstanding minimum euro-Swiss franc exchange rate. We find evidence suggesting that firms with more transparent disclosures regarding their foreign exchange risk exposure ex ante exhibit significantly lower information asymmetry ex post. The information gap in bid-ask spreads appears within 30 minutes of the announcement and persists for two weeks, during which new information gradually substitutes for past disclosures. We validate the information dynamics of past risk disclosures with three field surveys: (1) Sell-side analysts emphasize the importance of existing (risk) disclosures in evaluating the translational and transactional effects of the currency shock. (2) Lending banks’ credit officers rely on past disclosures as the primary information source available for smaller (unlisted) firms in the immediate aftermath of the shock. (3) Investor-relations managers use existing financial filings as a key resource when communicating with external stakeholders. The results suggest that historical disclosures help investors attenuate information asymmetry in light of unexpected news.

Keywords: Risk disclosures, adverse selection, liquidity, information asymmetry, currency risk, archival studies, surveys

JEL Classification: F31, G12, G14, G15, G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hail, Luzi and Muhn, Maximilian and Oesch, David, Do Risk Disclosures Matter When it Counts? Evidence from the Swiss Franc Shock (October 8, 2020). Jacobs Levy Equity Management Center for Quantitative Financial Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2939935 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2939935
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Abadie , A Diamond , And J Hainmueller
Synthetic Control Methods for Comparative Case Studies: Estimating the Effect of California's Tobacco Control Program
Journal of the American Statistical Association , volume 105 , p. 493 - 505 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Acemoglu , S Johnson , A Kermani , J Kwak , And T Mitton
The Value of Connections in Turbulent Times: Evidence from the United States
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 121 , p. 368 - 91 Posted: 2016
Crossref
S Agarwal , And R , Hauswald
Distance and Private Information in Lending
Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , p. 2757 - 88 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
889
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,448
RANK
61,583
28 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies