Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Best Practices in Egypt: Lessons Learnt from Raya Holding

12 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2017

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: January 10, 2016

Abstract

This case discusses how Raya Holding (Raya) has complied with the Egyptian code of corporate governance published in 2011 and the consequential improvement in organisational performance that has taken place over the last decade. The case uses the 2014 annual report and the company’s website to address Raya’s compliance with the code. The central theme of the case is that improvements in corporate governance could be correlated to organisational performance even though this relationship is a very complex one. Enhanced organisational performance might have taken place due to factors other than improvements in corporate governance. Considering the 2011 revolution where Egypt witnessed political unrest, Raya is a good example that is worthy of study since it was able to overcome the political unrest and the challenging environment that Egypt had in 2011 where it scored the fifth rank in the ESG index compared to the tenth rank in 2010. Moreover, Raya’s board attributed their success and good standing after the revolution to their continuous work on corporate governance throughout the previous years.

Keywords: Compliance, Corporate governance, Egyptian code of corporate governance, Raya Holding

Suggested Citation:

Shehata, Nermeen F., Corporate Governance Best Practices in Egypt: Lessons Learnt from Raya Holding (January 10, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2939851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2939851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
This case is based on public information published on Raya's website and its annual reports
Nermeen Shehata is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Accounting, School of Business. The author is grateful to comments from Dr
Raya Holding
Press Release: Raya Holding ranks fifth on the Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Index. Retrieved from www Posted: 2011
Ministry of Communications and Information Technology. National ICT Strategy 2012-2017: Towards a Digital Society and Knowledge-based Economy
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,243
RANK
328,615
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies