Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Boardroom to C-Suite: Why Would a Company Pick a Current Director as CEO?

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. 64

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 17-27

7 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2017

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: March 28, 2017

Abstract

Many observers consider the most important responsibility of the board of directors its responsibility to hire and fire the CEO. To this end, an interesting situation arises when a CEO resigns and the board chooses neither an internal nor external candidate, but a current board member as successor. Why would a company make such a decision? In this Closer Look, we examine this question in detail.

We ask:

• What does it say about a company’s succession plan when the board appoints a current director as CEO? • What is the process by which the board makes this decision? • Are directors-turned-CEO the most qualified candidates, or do they represent a stop-gap measure? • What does the sudden nature of these transitions say about the board’s ability to monitor performance?

The Closer Look series is a collection of short case studies through which we explore topics, issues, and controversies in corporate governance and executive leadership. In each study, we take a targeted look at a specific issue that is relevant to the current debate on governance and explain why it is so important. Larcker and Tayan are co-authors of the books Corporate Governance Matters and A Real Look at Real World Corporate Governance.

Keywords: Succession planning, leadership, chief executive officers, labor market, executives, board of directors, emergency CEO, interim CEO, CEO turnover, corporate governance research

JEL Classification: D20, G30, G39, J44,L20, M12

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian, From Boardroom to C-Suite: Why Would a Company Pick a Current Director as CEO? (March 28, 2017). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. 64, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 17-27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2940524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,319
RANK
133,846
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies