Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Languages and Earnings Management

46 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2017

Jaehyeon Kim

Nazarbayev University - Graduate School of Business

Yongtae Kim

Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Jian Zhou

University of Hawaii at Manoa

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 26, 2017

Abstract

We predict that managers of firms in countries where languages do not require speakers to grammatically mark future events perceive future consequences of earnings management to be more imminent, and therefore, they are less likely to engage in earnings management. Using data from 38 countries where languages differ on how they encode time, we find that accrual-based earnings management and real earnings management are less prevalent where there is weaker time disassociation in the language. Our analysis based on the birthplace information of U.S. firms’ CEOs confirms the relation between languages and earnings management. Our study is the first to examine the relation between the grammatical structure of languages and financial reporting characteristics, and it extends the literature on the effect of informal institutions on corporate actions.

Keywords: institutions, languages, earnings management, accrual-based earnings management, real earnings management

JEL Classification: D83, M41, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jaehyeon and Kim, Yongtae and Zhou, Jian, Languages and Earnings Management (March 26, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2941120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2941120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
605
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,455
RANK
102,108
45 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies