Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Earnings Smoothing, Audit Quality and Procyclicality in Africa: The Case of Loan Loss Provisions

Review of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 16, No. 2, 2017

29 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2017

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: March 2017

Abstract

This paper empirically examine whether the way African banks use loan loss provisions to smooth earnings is influenced by capital market motivations and the type of auditor after controlling for non-discretionary determinants of loan loss provisions and fluctuations in the business cycle. The findings support the income smoothing hypothesis and indicate that (i) African banks use loan loss provisions to smooth reported earnings; (ii) listed African banks use loan loss provisions to smooth earnings to a greater extent than non-listed African banks possibly for capital market reasons; (iii) income smoothing via loan loss provisions is not reduced among African banks with Big 4 auditor; and (iv) bank provisioning in Africa is procyclical with fluctuations in the business cycle. The findings have three implications. One, listed African banks smooth income because they are more visible to investors and investors do not view stock price fluctuation as a good signal. Securities market regulators in African countries should enforce strict disclosure rules that reduce earnings smoothing practices in order to improve the transparency of banks’ reported earnings in the region. Two, the presence of Big 4 auditor did not improve the informativeness of loan loss provisions estimates among African banks. Three, the evidence for procyclical provisioning suggest the need for dynamic loan loss provisioning system in Africa.

Keywords: Loan Loss Provisions, Earnings Management, Dynamic Provisioning, Income Smoothing, Audit Quality, Procyclicality, Africa, Banks, Economic Cycles

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, O55, N27

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Bank Earnings Smoothing, Audit Quality and Procyclicality in Africa: The Case of Loan Loss Provisions (March 2017). Review of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 16, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2941022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Ahmed , A Y Mohammed , A O Adisa
Loan Loss Provision and Earnings Management in Nigerian Deposit Money Banks
Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences , volume 5 Posted: 2014
A Anandarajan , I Hasan , C Mccarthy
Use of loan loss provisions for capital, earnings management and signalling by Australian banks
Accounting & Finance , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 357 - 379 Posted: 2007
Crossref
W H Beaver , E E Engel
Discretionary behavior with respect to allowances for loan losses and the behavior of security prices
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 177 - 206 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,739
RANK
427,290
5 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies