Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate and NGOs' Voluntary Disclosure on Collaboration. Evidence from Poland

Inzinerine Ekonomika - Engineering Economics, Vol. 27(1), p. 98–108, 2016

11 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2017 Last revised: 1 Apr 2017

Halina Waniak-Michalak

University of Lodz, Management Department

Jan Michalak

University of Lodz

Date Written: January 1, 2016

Abstract

Collaboration between NGOs and corporations is an expanding research area that brings up new questions. The paper seeks to establish the scope of information on philanthropic cooperation revealed by corporations and charitable organizations in a transition country (Poland) and its determinants.

The necessary data were obtained from the websites of corporations and foundations and from the reports on corporate social responsibility (CSR). The content analysis focused on the disclosures made by 41 corporations and 82 foundations. A total of 131 collaboration cases available on the websites and 95 cases disclosed in relation to CSR were examined. The research allowed to identify the key factors determining the amount of information on philanthropic partnerships displayed by corporations and charities on their websites and in CSR reports. In the case of corporations, the NGO being a corporate foundation and belonging to the group of biggest donors were the most important factors. As far as NGOs are concerned, the major factors were the NGO being, or not, a corporate foundation and the amount of donations as a percentage of its total revenue.

Keywords: NGOs, Corporations, Collaboration, Corporate Social Responsibility, Philanthropy, Disclosure, CSR Reports

JEL Classification: M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Waniak-Michalak, Halina and Michalak, Jan, Corporate and NGOs' Voluntary Disclosure on Collaboration. Evidence from Poland (January 1, 2016). Inzinerine Ekonomika - Engineering Economics, Vol. 27(1), p. 98–108, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2942163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
C A Adams , W Y Hill , C B Roberts
Corporate social reporting practices in Western Europe: legitimating corporate behavior
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1998
Crossref
C A Adams , G R Frost
Integrating sustainability reporting into management practices
Accounting Forum , volume 32 , p. 288 - 302 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Y B Adeneye , M Ahmed
Corporate social responsibility and company performance
Journal of Business Studies Quarterly , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 151 - 166 Posted: 2015
J E Austin , M M Seitanidi
Collaborative Value Creation: A Review of Partnering Between Nonprofits and Businesses: Part I. Value Creation Spectrum and Collaboration Stages. Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 41 , p. 726 - 758 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,221
RANK
631,426
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies