Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effects of the Audit Committee and the Fiscal Council on Earnings Quality in Brazil

Baioco, Vitor Gomes, & Almeida, José Elias Feres de. (2017). Effects of the audit committee and the fiscal council on earnings quality in Brazil. Revista Contabilidade & Finanças, Epub 27 de maro de 2017. doi/10.1590/1808-057x201703250

Posted: 29 Mar 2017

Vitor Baioco

Federal University of Espirito Santo

Jose Elias Almeida

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American) - Robert C. Vackar College of Business and Entrepreneurship

Date Written: March 28, 2017

Abstract

This study evaluates the effects of the audit committee and the fiscal council with their different characteristics on earnings quality in Brazil. The proxies of earnings quality used are: relevance of accounting information, timeliness, and conditional conservatism. The sample consists of Brazilian companies listed on the Brazilian Securities, Commodities, and Futures Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA) with annual liquidity above 0.001 within the period from 2010 to 2013. Data were collected from the database Comdinheiro and the Reference Forms of companies available on the website of the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) or the BM&FBOVESPA. The samples used in the study totaled 718, 688, and 722 observations for the value relevance, timeliness, and conditional conservatism models, respectively. The results indicate that different arrangements of the fiscal council and the existence of the audit committee differently impact the accounting information properties. The presence of the fiscal council positively impacted the relevance of equity, while the presence of the audit committee, the relevance of earnings. Conditional conservatism is evidenced in the group of companies with a permanent fiscal council, demonstrating that it is significant as a governance mechanism, rather than the installation for temporary operation when asked by shareholders in an ordinary general meeting. The presence of both showed significant earnings for the market, but they were not timely, something which exposes restriction to the relevance found. Lastly, the powered fiscal council showed a positive association only concerning the relevance of equity.

Keywords: earnings quality, fiscal council, audit committee, corporate governance, powered fiscal council

JEL Classification: G3, G34, M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Baioco, Vitor and Almeida, Jose Elias, Effects of the Audit Committee and the Fiscal Council on Earnings Quality in Brazil (March 28, 2017). Baioco, Vitor Gomes, & Almeida, José Elias Feres de. (2017). Effects of the audit committee and the fiscal council on earnings quality in Brazil. Revista Contabilidade & Finanças, Epub 27 de maro de 2017. doi/10.1590/1808-057x201703250, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2942215
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,304
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies