Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure on Corporate and NGO Cooperation in Poland - Coming out or a Low Profile Approach?

Theoretical Journal of Accounting, Vol. 88, Issue 144, p163-181, 2016

Posted: 30 Mar 2017 Last revised: 1 Apr 2017

Halina Waniak-Michalak

University of Lodz, Management Department

Jan Michalak

University of Lodz

Date Written: March 28, 2016

Abstract

The first aim of the paper is to answer the question regarding the scope of the information on philanthropic cooperation revealed by corporations and charitable organizations in a transition country. We explore the findings from the content analysis of disclosures of 41 corporations and 82 foundations. The results showed that the scope of disclosure on corporate and NGO collaborations is small on both sides. The second objective of the paper is to explore the reasons of the small scope of disclosure on corporations' and NGOs' collaborations. In order to achieve the second aim, we extended our analysis through interviews with CSR managers and directors of foundations. Firstly, some managers adopt the stance that when there is no legal requirements or even voluntary guidelines (like GRI Guidelines), no further disclosure on collaboration is necessary. Moreover, the managers of corporations tend to follow the materiality rule in voluntary disclosure and reveal information only in projects with the biggest budgets and/or major social impact. NGOs do not see the benefits for them in publishing detailed information about their collaboration with companies.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, NGOs, Reporting, Disclosure, Collaboration

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M14

Suggested Citation:

Waniak-Michalak, Halina and Michalak, Jan, Disclosure on Corporate and NGO Cooperation in Poland - Coming out or a Low Profile Approach? (March 28, 2016). Theoretical Journal of Accounting, Vol. 88, Issue 144, p163-181, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2942379
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,085
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies