Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insider Trading Restrictions and Earnings Management

Accounting and Business Research

56 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2017 Last revised: 3 Jun 2020

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Elvira Scarlat

IE Business School, IE University

Karin Shields

University of London - Birkbeck College

Date Written: November 8, 2019

Abstract

We study whether firms that voluntarily restrict insider trading have lower incentives for earnings management. Using a large sample of US firms, we measure these restrictions based on the extent to which insider transactions happen shortly after quarterly earnings announcements. We find that the adoption of insider trading restrictions is associated with a reduction of 9.92 percent in absolute discretionary accruals. Our findings are robust to controlling for changes in corporate governance, and we do not find evidence of a substitution effect between accruals and real earnings management, target beating or timeliness of loss recognition. Taken together, our results indicate that the voluntary adoption of blackout periods that limit insider trading improves the quality of financial reporting.

Keywords: Insider trading, voluntary insider trading restrictions, earnings management, real earnings management, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Scarlat, Elvira and Shields, Karin, Insider Trading Restrictions and Earnings Management (November 8, 2019). Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2943880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2943880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , T J Presley
Female board presence and the likelihood of financial restatement
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 607 - 629 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading, and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 5 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Agrawal , S Chadha
Corporate Governance and Accounting Scandals
The Journal of Law & Economics , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 406 Posted: 2005
Crossref
U Ali , D Hirshleifer
Opportunism as a firm and managerial trait: Predicting insider trading profits and misconduct
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 126 , issue 3 , p. 490 - 515 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Dante Viana Jr. , Isabel Lourenço , Ervin L. Black
The Effect of IFRS Adoption on Accrual-based and Real Earnings Management: Emerging Markets’ Perspective
Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies, Forthcoming · 43 Pages · Posted: 12 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 370
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Su-Ping Liu , Juan Manuel García Lara
Do Price-earnings Multiples for Firms with Patterns of Increasing Earnings Vary with the Quality of the Earnings Pattern?
Liu, S.-P. &amp; J. M. Garc&iacute;a Lara &ldquo;Do Price-earnings Multiples for Firms with Patterns of Increasing Earnings Vary with the Quality of the Earnings Pattern&#x3f;&rdquo; &#x28;July 29, 2022&#x29;. Forthcoming in REFC &ndash; Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting. , Available at SSRN · 62 Pages · Posted: 21 Sep 2022 · Last revised: 25 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 85
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
399
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,169
RANK
169,080
2 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies