Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Era of Voluntary Disclosure? Empirical Evidence on How Employee Postings on Social Media Relate to Future Corporate Disclosures

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2017 Last revised: 3 May 2018

Jeffrey Hales

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Laura Swenson

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Date Written: March 11, 2018

Abstract

With the advent of social media, individual public opinions about firms can be more easily accessed and aggregated, and recent research suggests that various platforms, such as Twitter, Seeking Alpha, and Estimize, provide information relevant in predicting future corporate disclosures. Rather than focusing on the general public's opinion, we examine a public platform designed to convey insider information - Glassdoor.com, where employees voluntarily share their opinions on a number of issues, including the company's near-term business outlook. Using a sample of approximately 150,000 employee reviews, we extract both employees' explicit assessments of outlook and a measure of their latent outlook derived from factor analysis. We then examine whether the opinions employees share on social media relate to future corporate disclosures. In particular, we find evidence that employee opinions are useful in predicting growth in key income statement information, transitory reporting items (e.g., restructuring charges), earnings surprises, and management forecast news. While voluntary disclosures about firm performance have traditionally come from executives, our evidence suggests that rank-and-file employees are chipping away at upper-level management's exclusive control over that channel.

Keywords: Voluntary disclosure; social media; employee outlook; forecasting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M12, M59

Suggested Citation:

Hales, Jeffrey and Moon, James and Swenson, Laura, A New Era of Voluntary Disclosure? Empirical Evidence on How Employee Postings on Social Media Relate to Future Corporate Disclosures (March 11, 2018). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2944309 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2944309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is All That Talk Just Noise? The Information Content of Internet Stock Message Boards
The Journal of Finance , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 1259 - 1294 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Douglas Ayres , John L. Campbell , James Chyz , Jonathan E. Shipman
Do Financial Analysts Compel Firms to Make Accounting Decisions? Evidence from Goodwill Impairments
Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming Pages: 49 Posted: 7 Sep 2015 Last revised: 12 Aug 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Social Science Research Network
I Babenko , R Sen
Do Nonexecutive Employees Have Valuable Information? Evidence from Employee Stock Purchase Plans
Management Science Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
793
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,370
RANK
71,864
53 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies