Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Benefit from Selective Access to Management?

Journal of Financial Reporting, Vol. 2, No. 1 (Spring 2017), pp. 31-61.

1 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2017 Last revised: 3 Aug 2018

Brian J. Bushee

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Michael J. Jung

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

Gregory S. Miller

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines whether selective access to corporate managers allows investors to revise their beliefs and execute profitable trades. We examine whether investors benefit from two potential opportunities for selective access at invitation-only investor conferences: one-on-one meetings with managers throughout the day and breakout sessions with managers after the webcast presentation. We find significant increases in trade sizes during the hours when firms provide offline access to investors, consistent with selective access providing investors with information they perceive to be valuable enough to trade upon. We also find significant potential trading gains concentrated primarily in three-day horizons after the conference for firms providing formal offline access, suggesting that selective access can lead to profitable trading opportunities. These trading gains are associated with analyst notes published during that period, indicating that such notes are one potential source of revelation to the broader market. Our evidence suggests that selective access to management conveys benefits to certain investors even in the post-Reg FD period.

Keywords: Selective Disclosure, Regulation Fair Disclosure, Conference Presentations, Informed Trading

JEL Classification: M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bushee, Brian J. and Jung, Michael J. and Miller, Gregory S., Do Investors Benefit from Selective Access to Management? (April 2, 2017). Journal of Financial Reporting, Vol. 2, No. 1 (Spring 2017), pp. 31-61., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2944987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
16 Citations
Alex Edmans , Doron Levit , Devin Reilly
Governance Under Common Ownership
Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming, European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Finance Working Paper No. 437/2014 · 69 Pages · Posted: 20 Aug 2014 · Last revised: 26 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 1,910
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Michael Firth , Sonia Man-Lai Wong , Yi SI , Xiaofeng Zhao
Corporate Accessibility and Stock Price Crash Risk
59 Pages · Posted: 22 Dec 2015 · Last revised: 28 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 355
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John L. Campbell , Brady J. Twedt , Benjamin C. Whipple
Trading Prior to the Disclosure of Material Information: Evidence from Regulation Fair Disclosure Form 8-Ks
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 48 Pages · Posted: 1 Jul 2016 · Last revised: 12 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 597
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kevin Pisciotta
Analyst Workload and Information Production: Evidence from IPO Assignments
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 53 Pages · Posted: 21 Aug 2016 · Last revised: 10 Jan 2023 · Downloads: 410
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,107
RANK
35,765
16 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies