Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Structure, Ownership Structure and Earnings Predictability: Malaysian Evidence

Al-Dhamari, R. A., & Ismail, K. N. I. K. (2013). Governance structure, ownership structure and earnings predictability: Malaysian evidence. Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance, 9(1), 1-23.

16 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2017 Last revised: 12 Apr 2017

Redhwan Al-dhamari

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Ku Nor Izah Ku Ismail

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: April 3, 2017

Abstract

This study is distinct from prior research focusing mainly on the relationship of corporate governance mechanisms to earnings management or earnings informativeness because it examines the associations between governance structure, ownership structure, and earnings predictability. Using a sample of 330 firms for the period of 2008 through 2009, the findings reveal that the predictive ability of earnings is high when firms have small boards, an independent chairperson, and high shareholding by institutions. However, in contradiction to our expectation is the significant but negative effect of board independence on earnings predictability. The results also demonstrate that investors do not perceive independent audit committees, more active audit committees, competent audit committees, and a high shareholding of management as good indicators of earnings numbers with a high predictive value.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Governance structure, Ownership structure, Earnings predictability

JEL Classification: M21

Suggested Citation:

Al-dhamari, Redhwan and Ku Ismail, Ku Nor Izah, Governance Structure, Ownership Structure and Earnings Predictability: Malaysian Evidence (April 3, 2017). Al-Dhamari, R. A., & Ismail, K. N. I. K. (2013). Governance structure, ownership structure and earnings predictability: Malaysian evidence. Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance, 9(1), 1-23., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2945299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Kirsten L. Anderson , Stuart L. Gillan , Daniel Deli
Boards of Directors, Audit Committees, and the Information Content of Earnings
Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance Working Paper No. 2003-04 Pages: 41 Posted: 23 Oct 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T Atwood , M S Drake , L A Myers
Book-tax conformity, earnings persistence and the association between earnings and future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , issue 1 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R A Al-Dhamari , K N I K Ismail
Governance structure, ownership structure and earnings predictability: Malaysian evidence
Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2013
Report and recommendations of the blue ribbon committee on improving the effectiveness of corporate audit committee Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
778
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,725
RANK
73,797
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies