Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bank Loan Contracting and International Tax Planning at Multinational Firms

62 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2017 Last revised: 29 Jul 2020

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Danye Wang

University of Iowa

Date Written: July 29, 2020

Abstract

Unlike purely domestic firms, globalized firms have unique opportunities to engage in international tax planning activities. This study examines whether banks consider international tax planning, and in particular potential earnings repatriation taxes, when setting loan contracts for multinational firms. We find that U.S. multinationals with high levels of potential earnings repatriation taxes face higher loan spreads, and we find that this effect is more pronounced for firms that have low profitability or that are financially constrained. We also document that banks are more likely to require collateral and include more financial covenants in the contracts of these borrowers. Our study contributes to the literature by investigating the effect of international tax issues on bank lending.

Keywords: Debt Contracting; International Tax Planning; Earnings Repatriation Taxes; Multinational Firms

JEL Classification: G01, M4, H2, H25, K3, K34

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Zhiming and Stice, Derrald and Wang, Danye, Bank Loan Contracting and International Tax Planning at Multinational Firms (July 29, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2945324 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2945324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
S M Albring , L F Mills , K J Newberry
Do Debt Constraints Influence Firms' Sensitivity to a Temporary Tax Holiday on Repatriations
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 33 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Albring , A C Dzuranin , L F Mills
Tax savings on repatriations of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Tax Notes Posted: 2005
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Repatriation taxes, repatriation strategies and multinational financial policy
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 73 - 107 Posted: 2003
Crossref
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
644
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,037
RANK
94,244
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies