Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Culture and Financial Reporting Risk: Looking Through the Glassdoor

49 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2017 Last revised: 1 Dec 2024

Yuan Ji

The University of Texas at Arlington

Oded Rozenbaum

George Washington University - School of Business

Kyle Welch

George Washington University; George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 1, 2017

Abstract

We study whether financial reporting risk is associated with job satisfaction, company culture, and perceptions of senior leadership. We use data on employees’ perspectives obtained from Glassdoor, covering 14,282 firm-years in the period 2008-2015. We argue that poorly implemented performance objectives lead to pressure and create a boiler room effect, negatively impacting the corporate climate and increasing the likelihood of manipulating performance metrics. Our findings reveal that firms with lower job satisfaction ratings (as measured by employees) and lower “culture and values” ratings are more likely to face SEC fraud enforcement actions and securities class action lawsuits. Moreover, the association between firms’ culture and financial reporting risk is stronger in firms with weaker board independence. These results suggest that the work environment, as perceived by employees, plays a critical role in shaping financial reporting risk.

Keywords: corporate culture, culture, fraud, SEC, employee feedback, job satisfaction, Glassdoor, financial reporting, governance

JEL Classification: M14, M12, M54, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ji, Yuan and Rozenbaum, Oded and Welch, Kyle, Corporate Culture and Financial Reporting Risk: Looking Through the Glassdoor (June 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2945745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2945745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
N Aktas , E De Bodt , H Bollaert , R Roll
CEO narcissism and the takeover process: From private initiation to deal completion
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 137 Posted: 2016
L S Bamber , J Jiang , I Y Wang
What's my style? The influence of top managers on voluntary corporate financial disclosure
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 4 , p. 1131 - 1162 Posted: 2010
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , J Yu , J Zhang
Detecting accounting frauds in publicly traded U.S. firms: New Perspectives and New Method Posted: 2015
M Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director compositions and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
16,984
RANK
5,670
12 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies