Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the SEC Captured? Evidence from Comment-Letter Reviews

Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 17-087

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

54 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2017 Last revised: 14 Jun 2017

Jonas Heese

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Mozaffar Khan

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - Carlson School of Management; Causeway Capital Management, LLC

Karthik Ramanna

University of Oxford - Blavatnik School of Government

Date Written: June 9, 2017

Abstract

SEC oversight of publicly listed firms ranges from comment letter (CL) reviews of firms’ reporting compliance to pursuing enforcement actions against violators. Prior literature finds that firm political connections (PC) negatively predict enforcement actions, inferring SEC capture. We present new evidence that firm PC positively predict CL reviews and substantive characteristics of such reviews, including the number of issues evaluated and the seniority of SEC staff involved. These results, robust to identification concerns, are inconsistent with SEC capture and indicate a more nuanced relation between firm PC and SEC oversight than previously suggested.

Keywords: comment letters, political connections, regulatory capture, SEC enforcement

JEL Classification: D72, G18, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Heese, Jonas and Khan, Mozaffar and Khan, Mozaffar and Ramanna, Karthik, Is the SEC Captured? Evidence from Comment-Letter Reviews (June 9, 2017). Harvard Business School Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper No. 17-087, Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2947752 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2947752
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
M D Beneish
Detecting GAAP violation: Implications for assessing earnings management among firms with extreme financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 309 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T Blackburne
Regulatory Oversight and Reporting Incentives: Evidence from SEC Budget Allocations Posted: 2014
B M Blau , T J Brough , D W Thomas
Corporate lobbying, political connections, and the bailout of banks
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 37 , issue 8 , p. 3007 - 3017 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,001
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,675
RANK
52,271
52 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Accounting & Management Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies