Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do the FASB's Standards Add Shareholder Value?

71 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2017

Urooj Khan

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Bin Li

Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of Management

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Mohan Venkatachalam

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 6, 2017

Abstract

We examine the cost-effectiveness, from the shareholders’ perspective, of the accounting standards issued by the FASB during 1973-2009. In particular, we evaluate (i) the stock market reactions of firms affected by the standards surrounding events that changed the probability of issuance of these standards and (ii) whether the market reactions are related, in the cross-section, to affected firms’ agency problems, information asymmetry, proprietary costs, contracting costs, and changes in estimation risk. The average standard is a non-event from the investors’ perspective. We find that 104 of the 138 standards we examine are associated with no change in shareholder value. Thirty-four standards are associated with significant abnormal returns. Of these 19 (15) decreased (increased) shareholder value. Thus, a mere 11% of the standards improved shareholder value. The fair value pronouncements (SFAS 105, 107, 115) and the R&D expensing standard (SFAS 2) are associated with the highest negative stock price reactions, whereas standards related to the securitization of mortgage-backed securities (SFAS 134) and the disclosure of derivative instruments (SFAS 119) are associated with the highest positive returns. Surprisingly, 25 standards are associated with an increase in estimation risk. In cross-section, we find that firms with higher levels of information asymmetry, lower contracting costs, and firms that experience a decrease in estimation risk are those that experience most positive returns. Principles-based standards are associated with more positive stock price reactions than rules-based standards are. However, standards that require greater use of managerial estimates are associated with negative stock price reactions.

Keywords: FASB, Standard Setting, Mandatory Disclosure, Event Study, Shareholder Value

JEL Classification: D80, G14, K22, L51, M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Urooj and Li, Bin and Rajgopal, Shivaram and Venkatachalam, Mohan, Do the FASB's Standards Add Shareholder Value? (April 6, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2947463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2947463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Baruch Itamar Lev
The Deteriorating Usefulness of Financial Report Information and How to Reverse It
50 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2017 · Downloads: 642
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hans Bonde Christensen , Lisa Yao Liu , Mark G. Maffett
Proactive Financial Reporting Enforcement and Shareholder Wealth
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming · 80 Pages · Posted: 27 Sep 2016 · Last revised: 6 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 1,418
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Philip Longoni
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts and Firm Value
40 Pages · Posted: 28 May 2020 · Downloads: 1,792
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
967
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,782
RANK
30,149
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies