Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Material Weakness in Internal Controls and Stock Price Crash Risk

Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance, Volume 35, Issue 1, pp. 106-138, 2020

42 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2017 Last revised: 3 Mar 2021

Gerald J. Lobo

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Chong Wang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Xiaoou Yu

California State University, Long Beach - College of Business Administration; Xiamen University - Institute for Financial and Accounting Studies

Yuping Zhao

University of Houston

Date Written: April 7, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the association between material weakness in internal controls (MW) disclosed under Section 302 of SOX and future stock price crash risk. We argue that relative to firms with effective internal controls, firms with MW have lower financial reporting precision. The lower reporting precision (1) increases divergence of investor opinion with regard to firm valuation, and (2) facilitates managers’ withholding of negative information, which increases the information asymmetry between managers and outside investors. We hypothesize that both these effects increase the probability of a future stock price crash. We find empirical evidence consistent with our prediction. In additional analyses, we document that the positive association between MW and crash risk is primarily driven by company-level rather than by account-specific weaknesses, increases in the number of material weaknesses, and intensifies during the financial crisis. Additionally, we find that both the existence and the disclosure of MW incrementally affect crash risk and that MW facilitates managers’ withholding of bad news. Finally, we fail to find consistent evidence of a significant relation between MW disclosed under Section 404 of SOX and crash risk.

Keywords: internal controls, material weakness, financial reporting precision, stock price crash risk

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Lobo, Gerald J. and Wang, Chong and Yu, Xiaoou and Yu, Xiaoou and Zhao, Yuping, Material Weakness in Internal Controls and Stock Price Crash Risk (April 7, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance, Volume 35, Issue 1, pp. 106-138, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2948698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
485
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,745
RANK
134,500
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies