Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conservatism Analysis in Indonesia after Adoption of IFRS and Relation to the Characteristics of the Board As One of the Mechanism of Corporate Governance (Empirical Study on Manufacturing Companies Listed on the Stock Exchange)

26 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2017

Muhammad Sadat Sadat Husein Pulungan

Independent

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 4, 2014

Abstract

This study aims to analyze the level of accounting conservatism in companies listed on the Stock Exchange. Analysis of accounting conservatism was performed using quantitative methods. Accounting conservatism roommates applied in different levels are influenced by external and internal factors. The external factors used in this study is the adoption of IFRS, while the internal factors are used that good corporate governance mechanisms such as the proportion of independent directors, the intensity of board meetings, managerial ownership, educational background of financial accounting and audit committee members and the size of the company. This study measured conservatism based on the accrual that was developed by Gipoly and Hyan (2002). The population of this study were manufacturing companies listed on the stock exchange Indonesi in 2005-2012. The sample was 38 manufacturing companies determined by purposive sampling. Data analysis was performed with the classical assumption and hypothesis testing with multiple linear regression models. The results of this study indicate that the IFRS, the intensity of board meetings, and institutional ownership have significant effects on the level of accounting conservatism. On the other hand, the proportion of independent directors, the educational background of financial accounting and audit committee members and the size of the company does not have a significant effect on the level of accounting conservatism after the adoption of IFRS.

Keywords: Conservatism

Suggested Citation:

Husein Pulungan, Muhammad Sadat Sadat, Accounting Conservatism Analysis in Indonesia after Adoption of IFRS and Relation to the Characteristics of the Board As One of the Mechanism of Corporate Governance (Empirical Study on Manufacturing Companies Listed on the Stock Exchange) (April 4, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2949709 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2949709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
L J Abbott , Parker , G F Peters
Characteristics and restatement of the Audit Committee
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and Board of Director Characteristics: An Empirical Analysis
Journal of Accounting and EconomicsAmsterdam , volume 43 , issue 3 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Amalia
The influence of accounting conservatism on Equity Rating Company Moderated by good corporate governance
National Symposium Accounting X Posted: 2007-07
Andri , Fili
Accounting conservatism in Europe and the Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption: Do country, institutional and legal differences survive? Posted: 2012-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,600
RANK
304,916
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies