Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aggregate Insider Trading and Market Returns: The Role of Transparency

Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2017 Last revised: 7 Oct 2018

Francois Brochet

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

Using a sample of countries that require timely disclosures of insider trades, I investigate the effect of country-level institutions that promote transparency on the extent to which aggregate insider trades predict market returns. I find that financial information transparency mitigates the predictive content of aggregate insider trades when markets are more likely to deviate from fundamentals (i.e., during market fads), and when there is greater co-movement in stock prices. In contrast, there is some evidence that governance and investor protection mitigate the association between aggregate insider trades and future earnings surprises. Hence, holding constant the timely disclosures of insider trades, other capital market institutions play complementary roles in mitigating the informational frictions that give rise to the predictive content of aggregate insider trades.

Keywords: Insider Trading, Investor Protection, Transparency, Fundamentals, Market Fads, Investor Sentiment, Synchronicity

JEL Classification: G14, G15

Suggested Citation:

Brochet, Francois, Aggregate Insider Trading and Market Returns: The Role of Transparency (October 1, 2018). Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2949382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2949382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M Firth , K Wang , S Wong
Corporate transparency and the impact of investor sentiment on stock prices
Management Science , volume 61 , issue 7 , p. 1630 - 1647 Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Francis , M Pinnuck , O Watanabe
Auditor style and financial statement comparability
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 605 - 633 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Gebka , A Korczak , P Korczak , J Traczykowski
Profitability of insider trading in Europe: A performance evaluation approach
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 44 , p. 66 - 90
Crossref
J Griffin
Are the Fama and French factors global or country specific?
Review of Financial Studies , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 783 - 803 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,549
RANK
251,747
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies