Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Board Interlocks Increase Innovation? Evidence from a Corporate Governance Reform in India

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

71 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2017

Christian Helmers

Charles III University of Madrid; Santa Clara University - Leavey School of Business

Manasa Patnam

CREST (ENSAE)

P. Raghavendra Rau

University of Cambridge; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 1, 2017

Abstract

We examine the effect of board interlocks on patenting and R&D spending for publicly traded companies in India. We exploit a corporate governance reform to address the endogeneity of board interlocks through exogenous changes mandated by the reform requiring a subset of firms to adjust their board structure. We rely on two difference-in-differences frameworks, comparing firms affected by the reform to unaffected firms as well as comparing within the set of firms that did not have to adjust their board structure those that still experienced an exogenous increase of their network size as a result of the reform to those that did not experience a change in their network size. We find that board interlocks have significant positive effects on both R&D and patenting. The evidence suggests that the impact on R&D is induced by information transmission through interlocks. The effect on patenting is driven by firms extending patent protection by patenting inventions abroad that they have already patented in India.

Keywords: Patents, peer effects, director networks, innovation, India, natural experiments

JEL Classification: G3, O16, O34, O31

Suggested Citation:

Helmers, Christian and Helmers, Christian and Patnam, Manasa and Rau, P. Raghavendra, Do Board Interlocks Increase Innovation? Evidence from a Corporate Governance Reform in India (April 1, 2017). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2949239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
W Greene
Fixed Effects and Bias Due to the Incidental Parameters Problem in the Tobit Model
Econometric Reviews , volume 23 , p. 125 - 147 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J Hagedoorn , A Link , And N Vonortas
Research partnerships
Research Policy , volume 29 , p. 567 - 586 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B H Hall , A Jaffe , And M Trajtenberg
Market Value and Patent Citations
The RAND Journal of Economics , volume 36 , p. 16 - 38 Posted: 2005
Crossref
B H Hall , And R , Ziedonis
The patent paradox revisited: an empirical study of patenting in the U.S. semiconductor industry, 1979-95
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 32 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Xuemei Qiu , Zhong‐qin Su , Zuo Ping Xiao
Do Social Ties Matter for Corporate Bond Yield Spreads? Evidence from China
Corporate Governance: An International Review, Vol. 27, Issue 6, pp. 427-457, 2019 · 31 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2020 · Downloads: 12
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,928
RANK
103,399
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies