Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Client Deadline Concentration in Audit Offices and Audit Quality

AUDITING: A Journal of Practice and Theory (2018)

51 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2017 Last revised: 17 Feb 2019

Keith Czerney

University of Missouri-Columbia; Charles River Associates (CRA) - Finance

Daun Jang

California State University, Sacramento, College of Business, Department of Accountancy

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 23, 2018

Abstract

This research investigates the effect on audit quality of concentrated public company financial statement filing deadlines in audit offices. Audit offices must effectively manage their resources to meet their clients’ audit service demands. For audit offices with clients that have filing deadlines concentrated in time, resource management is of greater importance because, when constrained or not managed effectively, resources can impair audit quality. We draw on the resource constraints and multiple project resource allocation literatures in auditing and management, respectively, to hypothesize that audit quality is lower when an audit office’s clients’ financial statement deadlines concentrate in time, which we term client deadline concentration. Using multiple proxies for audit quality, we find an economically significant negative association between an audit office’s client deadline concentration and audit quality. This significant effect is incremental to the effects of other resource-based constraints from the prior literature and to controls for unobservable differences in audit offices that explain a significant amount of the variation in audit quality outcomes. In light of our findings, audit offices might more carefully consider the relative timing of client deadlines when accepting or continuing client engagements and when making resource-related decisions.

Keywords: audit quality, deadline concentration, audit offices

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Czerney, Keith and Jang, Daun and Omer, Thomas C., Client Deadline Concentration in Audit Offices and Audit Quality (July 23, 2018). AUDITING: A Journal of Practice and Theory (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2949124 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2949124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
D ; C P Aobdia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads?
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
C W Alderman , J W Deitrick
Auditors' perceptions of time budget pressures and premature sign-offs: A replication and extension
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 54 - 68 Posted: 1982
R Antle , B Nalebuff
Conservatism and auditor-client negotiations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 31 - 54 Posted: 1991
Crossref
E L Beardsley , D R Lassila , T C Omer
How do audit offices respond to audit fee pressure? Evidence of increased focus on nonaudit services and their impact on audit quality
Contemporary Accounting Research Forthcoming Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,015
RANK
131,892
20 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies