Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance, Conservatism and Auditor Resignation

29 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2017

Jiahui Liang

Macau University of Science and Technology (MUST), Student

Chan Lyu

Macau University of Science and Technology

Date Written: November 12, 2016

Abstract

This paper studies the influence of conditional conservatism on the auditor resignations, and more importantly, the impact of corporate governance on this relationship. The existing literature has provided evidence on the existence and pervasiveness of accounting conservatism, such as compensation and debt contracts, shareholder litigation, taxation and accounting supervision. However, there is very limited evidence and discussion on the potential impact of accounting conservatism on audit risk and auditor resignation. Furthermore, research on how effective corporate governance affects the relationship is rarely covered.

We select the firm-year observations from 2005 to 2015. We find that the conditional conservatism reduces the auditor resignations by reducing the expected audit risk. However, further empirical results show that this reduction in auditor resignations is attenuated by higher corporate governance quality. That is, effective corporate governance will moderate the negative correlation between conservatism and auditor resignations. The empirical results of this paper are of value to firms, auditors, regulators, standard-setters and corporate managers. In addition, this paper expands the literature on the influencing factors of auditor resignations.

Keywords: Conservatism, Auditor Resignations, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: M4, G34

Suggested Citation:

Liang, Jiahui and Lyu, Chan, Corporate Governance, Conservatism and Auditor Resignation (November 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2951607 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2951607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Stephanie Miller , Qin Tan
Auditor Change Disclosures as Signals of Earnings Management and Risk
Posted: 22 Feb 2018 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stephanie Monteiro Miller
Dual 8-K filings and auditor downward switches
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 204 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,932
RANK
297,230
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies