Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information and Corporate Risk-Taking

59 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2017

Jürgen Ernstberger

Technische Universität München

Martin Prott

Technical University of Munich

Date Written: April 2016

Abstract

We examine how accounting information influences corporate risk-taking. We predict that transparent accounting disclosure can influence corporate risk-taking by enabling managers to better evaluate risks and by enabling investors to better monitor managers' risk appetite. We test this prediction by orchestrating the mandatory adoption of IFRS around the world, enforcement reforms around the world, and the introduction of quarterly reporting in the European Union as exogenous shocks to firms’ accounting information environment, which made disclosure more relevant and comparable, reliable as well as more timely. Our findings provide evidence that these changes in the accounting information environment are associated with a decline in corporate risk-taking. For firms subject to enforcement reforms this effect is unconditional. For firms’ adoption of IFRS or quarterly reporting, this effect is conditional upon whether these reforms are strongly enforced. We also document that the decline in risk-taking after the changes in the accounting information environment is associated with an increase in total shareholder return.

Keywords: Accounting Information, Corporate Risk-Taking, Information Shocks, Mandatory IFRS Adoption, Enforcement Reforms

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ernstberger, Jürgen and Prott, Martin, Accounting Information and Corporate Risk-Taking (April 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2951304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2951304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
J M Bacidore , J A Boquist , T T Milbourn , A V Thakor
The search for the best financial performance measure
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 11 - 20 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
L L Bargeron , K M Lehn , C J Zutter
Sarbanes-Oxley and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 34 - 52 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C B Barry , S J Brown
Differential information and security market equilibrium
The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 407 - 422 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,030
RANK
271,899
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies