Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Benefits of R&D Capitalization

42 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2017 Last revised: 1 May 2017

Dennis R. Oswald

University of Michigan - Ross School of Business

Ana Vidolovska Simpson

London School of Economics & Political Science - Department of Accounting

Paul Zarowin

New York University (NYU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 13, 2017

Abstract

We examine the information benefits of R&D capitalization in the UK after the adoption of IFRS (which mandates capitalization of development costs). Using the successful efforts model of Healy et al (2002), we examine whether information provided by capitalization helps to explain current stock returns, and to predict future earnings. We also examine whether the market could deduce the unrecognized capitalization information under expensing, by examining the market’s pricing of pro-forma capitalization information from the year before IFRS. We find that the capitalization variables have significant explanatory power for both returns and earnings, that the market values the decomposition of current R&D expenditures into their expensed vs capitalized components, and that firms’ switch to capitalization under IFRS revealed new information to the market. Together, these results attest to both the relevance and reliability of the capitalization information, and to the importance of its recognition.

Keywords: resaearch and development, capitalization, relevance, reliability

JEL Classification: G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Oswald, Dennis R. and Simpson, Ana and Zarowin, Paul, The Information Benefits of R&D Capitalization (April 13, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2952388 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2952388
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
David Aboody , Baruch Lev
The Value Relevance of Intangibles: The Case of Software Capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Ray Ball , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
Earnings Quality in UK Private Firms: Comparative Loss Recognition Timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Ray Ball , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
Earnings Quality at Initial Public Offerings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Marianne Bertrand , Esther Duflo , Sendhil Mullainathan
How Much Should We Trust Differences-In-Differences Estimates?
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 249 - 275 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
789
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,332
RANK
72,384
3 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies