Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gender Diversity and Default Risk: A Global Perspective

Posted: 21 Apr 2017

Sivathaasan Nadarajah

Griffith University

Benjamin Liu

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Allen Huang

Griffith University - Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics

Searat Ali

University of Wollongong; University of Wollongong - School of Accounting, Economics & Finance

Date Written: April 19, 2017

Abstract

We are the first to investigate the effect of board gender diversity on default risk across countries, largely focusing on various aspects of institutional setting at country-level. Intuitively, board gender diversity is likely to influence default risk as women on the board improves the board effectiveness and mitigates information asymmetry between management and shareholders. Using a large panel of non-financial firms in 48 countries over the period 2004–2015, we find a significantly negative relationship between women on the board and default risk. This finding is statistically significant, economically meaningful and robust to a range of alternative proxies, to additional tests, and to a natural experiment setting. Moreover, we find that the negative effect of board gender diversity on default risk is more pronounced in countries with strong institutional setting. These findings not only have profound implications for the stakeholders of the firm but also are useful to the countries where government increasingly expect board gender diversity policies.

Keywords: board gender diversity, default risk, information asymmetry, institutional setting, and global markets

JEL Classification: G12, G30, G34, J16

Suggested Citation:

Nadarajah, Sivathaasan and Liu, Benjamin and Huang, Allen R. and Ali, Searat and Ali, Searat, Gender Diversity and Default Risk: A Global Perspective (April 19, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2954853
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,322
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies