Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foundation Ownership, Reputation, and Labour

Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2017 Last revised: 12 Nov 2018

Christa Børsting

Copenhagen Business School - Department of International Economics and Management, Students

Steen Thomsen

Copenhagen Business School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: November 12, 2018

Abstract

A number of firms in Northern Europe and especially in Denmark are owned by private foundations similarly to what would have been the case if the Ford Foundation had owned a majority of the shares in Ford Motor Company. Foundation-owned companies appear to perform surprisingly well in terms of profitability and growth despite lacking governance mechanisms like profit incentives or takeover threats. Given their non-profit ownership, they might be expected to behave more responsibly towards stakeholders such as employees or customers (Hansmann 1980), but so far there has been little empirical evidence to support this hypothesis. This paper presents new research on the reputation and responsibility of foundation-owned companies. In a panel of large Danish companies 2001-2011 we find that foundation-owned firms have better reputations and are regarded as more socially responsible in corporate image ratings. Secondary evidence on labour market behaviour is consistent with these findings. Using matched employer-employee data we show that foundation-owned companies are more stable employers, pay their employees better and keep them for longer. Altogether, the evidence indicates that foundation-ownership is associated with more responsible business behaviour towards employees.

Keywords: Foundation Ownership, Reputation, Labour, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G34, L21, L31, J54

Suggested Citation:

Børsting, Christa and Thomsen, Steen, Foundation Ownership, Reputation, and Labour (November 12, 2018). Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2955572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
B Aksoy , C Cooil , T Groening , Keiningham , Yalcin
The long-term stock market valuation of customer satisfaction
Journal of Marketing , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 105 - 122
Crossref
R C Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Aoki
The Co-operative Game Theory of the Firm. Cambridge Posted: 1984
Julian Atanassov , E Kim
Labor and corporate governance: International evidence from restructuring decisions
The Journal of Finance , volume 64 , issue 1 , p. 341 - 374 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,438
RANK
263,404
5 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies