Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Political Economy of Corporate Governance

ephemera, volume 16(1): 1-17

17 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2017

Andreas Jansson

School of Business and Economics, Linnaeus University

Ulf Larsson-Olaison

Linnaeus University

Jeroen Veldman

Nyenrode Business university

Armin Beverungen

Leuphana University of Lueneburg

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Corporate governance reform for promoting efficiency and wealth creation by large corporations has been much in vogue for a few decades now (Lazonick and O’Sullivan, 2000; Filatotchev and Boyd, 2009). The academic field of corporate governance has been equally vibrant with a burgeoning of theory and research (Filatotchev and Boyd, 2009; Ireland, 2009), and influential publications on corporate governance matters, such as Jensen and Meckling (1976) and La Porta et al. (1998), rank among the most cited in the social sciences. Notwithstanding literature on financialization that suggests finance has in some ways sidestepped the corporation as capital’s primary vehicle of extracting value (see e.g. ephemera, 9(4) on ‘the university of finance’), or literature on the common(s) which implies productive activity might today more often than not be organized outside of corporations (see e.g. ephemera, 13(3) on ‘the communism of capital’), corporate governance asserts the corporate form as a key social technology of our time. This special issue engages with this field and the outcomes it entails, suggesting it is a political-ideological project based on a set of questionable conceptual and empirical assumptions, which in turn entail a set of norms and prescriptions – a normativity – with devastating political-economic effects.

Keywords: corporate governance; financialization; political economy

Suggested Citation:

Jansson, Andreas and Larsson-Olaison, Ulf and Veldman, Jeroen and Beverungen, Armin, The Political Economy of Corporate Governance (2016). ephemera, volume 16(1): 1-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2956281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
M Aglietta , A Rebérioux
Corporate governance adrift: A critique of shareholder value Posted: 2005
R V Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance worldwide: What is the trigger?
Organization Studies , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 415 - 443 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M K Bednar
Watchdog or lapdog? A behavioral view of the media as a corporate governance mechanism , volume 55 , p. 131 - 150 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Beverungen , P Case
Editorial introduction: Where is business ethics?
Business Ethics: A European Review , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 229 - 232 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,177
RANK
333,065
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies