Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Related Party Transactions: Does Cross-listing Reduce the Legal Origin Disclosure Gap?

International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2022

49 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2017 Last revised: 3 Oct 2022

Edilene Santana Santos

Fundacao Getulio Vargas (EAESP); Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Sao Paulo School of Business Administration

Rafael F. Schiozer

Fundação Getulio Vargas/EAESP

Vera Ponte

Universidade Federal do Ceará

Date Written: October 22, 2019

Abstract

(A revised version of this paper has been published in The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2022.)

The research problem
We investigate whether cross-listing in the United States is associated with a reduction in disclosure deficiencies about related party transactions (RPT) related to the legal traditions of firms’ countries of origin.

Motivation
The extant literature shows that there is a disclosure disparity associated to the firms’ legal origin (civil or common law) and the countries’ institutions (regulation, enforcement, and market scrutiny). The literature has not examined whether cross-listing in the United States mitigates (or eliminates) the disclosure gap for firms from civil law countries and countries with worse institutions. We focus on related party transactions because the US Securities and Exchange Commission has put particular emphasis on regulation of this type of disclosure.

Hypotheses
H1: Among domestically listed firms, those from countries with common law tradition present superior level of RPT disclosure than firms from countries with a civil law tradition.
H2: Cross-listed firms have a superior level of RPT disclosure compared to domestically listed firms from the same country.
H3: Among cross-listed firms, those from countries with common law tradition present a superior level of RPT disclosure than firms from countries with a civil law tradition.

Target population
Firms from countries that have adopted IFRS. We sample firms from the G20 countries that have adopted IFRS because of their representativeness in the world economy.

Adopted methodology
Ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions with firm and industry-year fixed effects. Two-stage least squares (instrumental variables) regressions to tackle endogeneity issues.

Analyses
We manually collected data from the financial reports of 531 firms from the G20 countries that have adopted IFRS to compute indices of compliance with disclosures required by IAS 24. We performed double-difference regressions, comparing firms across their legal origin (common law versus civil law), and cross-listing status (cross-listed in the United States versus domestically listed only). In addition, we studied the institutional channels that drive the disclosure gap between common and civil law firms.

Findings
For domestically listed firms, we found that firms from the common law tradition have RPT disclosure levels superior to those of firms from the civil law tradition. We found that the level of RPT disclosure is associated with countries’ regulatory quality, rule of law and control of corruption. However, we did not find any differences in the level of RPT disclosure among firms cross-listed in the United States that can be associated with firms’ legal origin or with other home-country institutional features. Our results suggest that the regulatory enforcement and scrutiny of capital markets imposed by the US market compensate for home-country institutional deficiencies and eliminate differences in firms’ RPT disclosures across legal origins.

Keywords: cross-listing, mandatory disclosure, legal origin, enforcement, regulatory quality, IAS 24; Related party transactions

JEL Classification: F23, G38, k20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Santos, Edilene Santana and Schiozer, Rafael F. and Ponte, Vera, Disclosure of Related Party Transactions: Does Cross-listing Reduce the Legal Origin Disclosure Gap? (October 22, 2019). International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 57, No. 4, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2956918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2956918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A Adhikari , R H Tondkar
Environmental factors influencing accounting disclosure requirements of global stock exchanges
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 75 - 105 Posted: 1992
B C Ayers , C Schwab , M Utke , S
Noncompliance with mandatory disclosure requirements: the magnitude and determinants of undisclosed Permanently Reinvested Earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 90 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 93 Posted: 2015
W Bailey , G A Karolyi , C Salva
The economic consequences of increased disclosure: evidence from international cross-listings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 213 Posted: 2006
R Ball
Infrastructure requirements for an economical efficient system of public financial reporting and disclosure
Brookings-Wharton Papers on Financial Services , p. 127 - 169 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,802
RANK
345,746
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies