Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Free Cash Flow, CEO Ability and Firm Performance

21 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2017

Ruiyun Wen

University of Western Ontario, Students

Date Written: April 23, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines the conflict existing between firm’s free cash flow and firm performance. As some arguments state that more free cash flow will possibly result less profitability of firm compare to no-cash-flow firms, it also tests whether high CEO ability will solve this conflicts and improve the usage of free cash flow on profitable projects rather than on investments with unprofitable return. The result is consistent with the famous agency costs theory, as it shows that firms with free cash flow perform worse from revenue growth than firms without free cash flow. While, the impact of CEO ability on revenue growth and performance varies. The impact is more significant on performance measurement of ROA than that of ROE. Management under long-tenure CEO with implied high management skills moderates the negative influence of free cash flow on performance while executives with low-tenure CEO, suggesting high CEO turnover, result in high level of revenue growth while low accounting profitability.

Keywords: cash flow, CEO ability, firm performance, revenue growth, Tobin’s Q

Suggested Citation:

Wen, Ruiyun, Free Cash Flow, CEO Ability and Firm Performance (April 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2957340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2957340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Sam Allgood , Kathleen A Farrell
The Effect of CEO Tenure on the Relation Between Firm Performance and Turnover
Journal of Financial Research , volume 23 , p. 373 - 390 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Eugene W Anderson , Claes Fornell , Donald R Lehmann
Customer Satisfaction, Market Share, And Profitability: Findings from Sweden
Journal of Marketing , volume 58 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Sanjai Bhagat , Bernard S. Black
The Non-Correlation between Board Independence and Long-Term Firm Performance
Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 185 Pages: 44 Posted: 3 Oct 1998
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
William Brainard , C , James Tobin
Pitfalls in Financial Model Building , volume 58 Posted: 1968
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,830
RANK
215,250
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies