Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Performance: A Reflection of Risk Management Practices and Artificial Intelligence

32 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2017

Isoken Akpata

Richard Ivey School of Business

Date Written: April 24, 2017

Abstract

The relationship between a firm’s risk management practices and the performance and profitability of the firm is assessed, as well as the impact of artificial intelligence on financial risk management and how that further affects firm performance. The article examines risk controlling practices post-financial crisis period to determine if the financial event was a deciding factor in most firm’s implementation of increased managerial practices towards risk. It was found that risk management, as accounted for in a firm’s capital structure, significantly affects profitability, if the firm is a financial institution. Non-financial institutions can apply effective risk management techniques through other firm operating activities and applying targeted financial instruments.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence, Capital Ratios, Credit Ratings, Derivatives Hedging, Duration Ratio, Financial Crisis, Loan Loss Provision, Profitability, Risk Factors, Risk Management, ROA, Stock Price Volatility

JEL Classification: D21

Suggested Citation:

Akpata, Isoken, Firm Performance: A Reflection of Risk Management Practices and Artificial Intelligence (April 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2957636 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2957636
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Mark Jeffrey Flannery , Paul Glasserman , David K.A. Mordecai , Cliff Rossi
Forging Best Practices in Risk Management
OFR 12-02 Pages: 73 Posted: 7 Aug 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lawrence A Gordon , Loeb , P Martin , Chih-Yang Tseng
Enterprise Risk Management and Firm Performance: A Contingency Perspective
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 28 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Katherine Heires
The Rise of Artificial Intelligence Posted: 2015
Fan Li , Yijun Zou
The Impact of Credit Risk Management on Profitability of Commercial Banks: A Study of Europe. Digitala Vetenskapliga Arkivet Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,300
RANK
240,980
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies