Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Intellectual Capital on Organizational Effectiveness: A Comparative Study of Public and Private Sectors in India

The IUP Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. XIV, No. 3, July 2016, pp. 7-27

Posted: 24 Apr 2017

Tannu Verma

JK Lakshmipat University

Santosh Dhar

Independent

Date Written: April 24, 2017

Abstract

Due to significant global market opportunities and challenges, organizations are seeking to become strategy-focused, encouraging the management researchers globally to study strategically progressive and fruitful management practices that could maximize overall organizational effectiveness. Intellectual capital is widely considered as a dynamic value concept which positively affects the organizational performance (Bontis, 1998). Since organizational effectiveness is considered as a wholesome and a comprehensive measure to gauge organizational performance (Lee and Choi, 2003), this study attempts to explore the impact of intellectual capital and its components on organizational effectiveness of public and private sectors in India. Collective sample response of 420 respondents, from both the sectors, was collected through standardized questionnaires and subjected to regression analysis through SPSS v20. The findings reveal that the impact of intellectual capital on organizational effectiveness is higher in public sector organizations than in private sector organizations. Human capital and structural capital, and not customer capital, impact the organizational effectiveness in public sector organizations, whereas all the three components of intellectual capital impact organizational effectiveness in private sector organizations.

Suggested Citation:

Verma, Tannu and Dhar, Santosh, The Impact of Intellectual Capital on Organizational Effectiveness: A Comparative Study of Public and Private Sectors in India (April 24, 2017). The IUP Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. XIV, No. 3, July 2016, pp. 7-27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2957477
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Environment for Innovation eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies