Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR and CSI Drivers: Are CEO Founders More Ethical than Common Shareholders and Should Company Responsibility Be Divided

23 Pages Posted: 1 May 2017

Mathieu Ouellette

University of Western Ontario, Department of Economics, Students

Date Written: April 24, 2017

Abstract

This paper explores key drivers of what makes a company more prone to exercise corporate social responsibility (CSR) and avoid corporate social irresponsibility. We examine key relationships between company age, size and whether the founding CEO is still in power. We hypothesize that CSR decreases as a company ages and grows with time and that founding CEOs are more prone to practice Corporate Social Responsibility and to avoid Corporate Social Irresponsibility. This paper will test our hypotheses, shine light and hopefully, evoke further research on how CEO and firm characteristics effect Corporate Social Responsibility and Irresponsibility.

Keywords: Blame, CSR, CSI, CEO Founder, Responsibility, Sustainable

Suggested Citation:

Ouellette, Mathieu, CSR and CSI Drivers: Are CEO Founders More Ethical than Common Shareholders and Should Company Responsibility Be Divided (April 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2957994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2957994
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
411,549
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies