Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Quantitative Materiality Judgments: Properties and Implications for Financial Reporting Reliability

28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting

65 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2017 Last revised: 30 Jun 2019

Preeti Choudhary

University of Arizona, Eller College of Management

Kenneth J. Merkley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Katherine Schipper

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 28, 2019

Abstract

We analyze data made available through the PCAOB (Public Company Accounting Oversight Board) to provide descriptive evidence on the properties of auditors’ actual quantitative materiality judgments and the implications of those judgments for financial reporting. Auditors’ quantitative materiality judgments do not appear to result simply from applying conventional rules-of-thumb, (e.g., 5% of pre-tax income), but instead are associated with size-related financial statement outcomes (income, revenues and assets), where the relative importance of the size-related outcomes varies with client characteristics such as financial performance. Using the distribution of actual materiality amounts reported by auditors to the PCAOB as part of the audit-inspection process, we construct a materiality-judgment measure that locates a specific materiality amount within a normal range that is both comparable across varying client characteristics and supported by guidance in audit firm internal policy manuals. We find that looser materiality (an amount closer to the high end of a normal materiality range) is associated with fewer audit hours and lower audit fees, supporting the construct validity of this measure. We also find that looser materiality is associated with lower amounts of proposed audit adjustments and, in extreme cases, with a greater incidence of restatements, highlighting the importance of auditor materiality assessments for financial reporting reliability.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Materiality, Auditing, Reporting Quality

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, C80

Suggested Citation:

Choudhary, Preeti and Merkley, Kenneth J. and Schipper, Katherine, Auditors’ Quantitative Materiality Judgments: Properties and Implications for Financial Reporting Reliability (June 28, 2019). 28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2958405 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2958405
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,033
RANK
30,930
9 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies