Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Directors Skill and Financial Reporting Quality

61 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2017

Amir Rubin

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Reichman University

Dan Segal

Reichman University

Date Written: April 25, 2017

Abstract

Motivated by theoretical models in economics which show that there is matching between CEO skill and firm size, we introduce a new measure of director skill which is based on the aggregate size of firms on which the director serves as an independent director. We validate our measure by showing that it is positively associated with director experience, financial expertise, industry expertise, and managerial experience. We then examine whether our average measure of skill across board members is positively associated with monitoring quality. Controlling for the endogenous relation between board composition and financial reporting quality, we find a positive association between our board measure for skill and monitoring quality, and we show that directors have a causal impact on monitoring effort and outcomes. Furthermore, consistent with the enhanced monitoring provided by skilled directors, we document a positive association between the level of and changes in our measure and firm value.

Keywords: Skill, Independent Directors, Financial Reporting Quality, Monitoring

JEL Classification: G34, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Rubin, Amir and Segal, Dan, Directors Skill and Financial Reporting Quality (April 25, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2958306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2958306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Adams Renee , B B E S Hermalin &amp; M , Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
C Ai , E C Norton
Interaction terms in logit and probit models
Economics letters , volume 80 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 129 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Asthana , S Balsam
Determinants of outside director turnover Posted: 2009
Load more
2 Citations
Keren Bar-Hava , Sterling Huang , Benjamin Segal , Dan Segal
Do Independent Directors Tell the Truth, the Whole Truth, and Nothing but the Truth When They Resign?
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 3 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Thomas C. Omer , Marjorie Shelley , Frances M. Tice
Do Director Networks Matter for Financial Reporting Quality? Evidence from Audit Committee Connectedness and Restatements
Forthcoming, Management Science · 63 Pages · Posted: 16 Jan 2014 · Last revised: 27 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 1,377
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,025
RANK
69,862
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies