Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of IFRS Adoption on Financial Decisions Case Study of Indian Information Technology Industry: Wipro Ltd.

Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Vol. 29(2), 2016

Posted: 26 Apr 2017

Vidya Chandrasekar

CHRIST (Deemed to be University) - Institute of Management

D.N.S. Kumar

CHRIST (Deemed to be University)

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Expansion of business environment in the 1990s changed the financial set up of India from the conventional bank based borrowings to marked based one. This necessitated companies to address global stakeholders. The regulatory requirement of different countries also necessitated companies to do multiple reporting i.e., one as per home country standard and the other as per the host country standard. To overcome multiple reporting and to address global stakeholders, a uniform system of reporting was felt necessary to facilitate comparisons, which resulted in the establishment of International Accounting Standard Board (IASB) which issues International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Certain Indian companies having listed in foreign stock exchanges are reporting IFRS voluntarily in their financial statements. The present study tries to understand the impact of this voluntary adoption of IFRS on the financial decision makers through a case analysis of Wipro Ltd. The analysis compared the ma jor financial parameters under IFRS and Indian GAAP as reported by Wipro Ltd for a period of four years from 2009 -10 to 2012-13. The results postulate an increase in liquidity ratios; interest coverage ratio; marginal increase in debt equity ratio; and no significant increase in profitability ratios except net profit ratio which rose slightly in the year 2013. Overall the results indicate that the adoption of fair value accounting and strict requirement in adhering to accounting standards have strengthened the financial indicators an d provided the decision makers a transparent, true and fair accounting highlighters.

Keywords: Financial Markets, Globalization, Financial Reporting, Accounting Standards

JEL Classification: E61, F42, G39, M41, O53

Suggested Citation:

Chandrasekar, Vidya and Kumar, D.N.S., Impact of IFRS Adoption on Financial Decisions Case Study of Indian Information Technology Industry: Wipro Ltd. (2016). Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Vol. 29(2), 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2958403
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,316
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies