Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Indices, Firm Value, and Accounting Outcomes

59 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2017

Wael Almaqoushi

University College Dublin (UCD)

Ronan Powell

University College Dublin (UCD) - Michael Smurfit Graduate School of Business

Date Written: April 27, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the relation between audit committee (AC, hereafter) quality indices derived from a principal component analysis (PCA) and firm value using a sample of 12,301 firms over the period 2002 to 2012. We also examine the usefulness of the indices in predicting the quality of a firm’s internal controls, financial reporting, and audit quality. We report a significant positive (negative) relation between ‘high’ (‘low’) AC quality firms and future firm value, measured as industry-adjusted Tobin’s q, supporting the view that AC characteristics have a significant impact on firm value. We show that low AC quality firms are significantly more likely to have internal control concerns disclosed by predecessor auditors, including accounting standard issues, financial restatements, audit opinion concerns, and deficiencies that undermine internal control effectiveness. We also show that low AC quality firms are more likely to manage earnings, be external auditor dependent with respect to non-audit tax services, and switch to a lower quality auditor. Further, they are also more likely to receive an audit report containing additional explanatory notes, consistent with a higher likelihood of future financial misstatements. Conversely, high AC quality firms are less likely to have accounting issues, dismiss an auditor after disagreements, have adverse restatements, and receive an audit report containing additional explanatory notes. Taken together, our findings support the view that the AC plays an important role in monitoring the financial reporting process. The results are robust to several econometric concerns primarily related to endogeneity, and to controls that capture broader firm-level governance characteristics, suggesting that AC quality has incremental value in driving better financial reporting, and internal control outcomes and, more importantly, firm value.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Firm Value, Internal Controls, Earnings Management, Principal Component Analysis

JEL Classification: M4, G3

Suggested Citation:

Almaqoushi, Wael and Powell, Ronan G., Audit Committee Indices, Firm Value, and Accounting Outcomes (April 27, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2959718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2959718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
610
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,017
RANK
101,005
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies