Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting and Debt Contracting: Evidence from Adoption of SFAS 159

Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 54, No. 4, 2016

Posted: 27 Apr 2017

Peter R. Demerjian

School of Accountancy, J. Mack Robinson College of Business, Georgia State University

John Donovan

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Chad R. Larson

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2016

Abstract

We examine how fair value accounting affects debt contract design, specifically the use and definition of financial covenants in private loan contracts. Using SFAS 159 adoption as our setting, we find that a small but significant proportion of loans (14.5%) modify covenant definitions to exclude the effects of SFAS 159 fair values. Only a limited number of these modifications exclude assets elected at fair value (less than 7%), while all exclude liabilities elected at fair value. Notably, we document that covenant definition modification is unassociated with ex-ante fair value elections. We find that covenant definition modification positively varies with common incentive problems attributed to fair value accounting and negatively varies with benefits attributed to fair value accounting. Contrary to prior evidence, our results suggest that fair value accounting is not uniformly detrimental for debt contracting and that fair value adjustments are included when they are most likely to improve performance measurement.

Keywords: fair value accounting, debt contracting, SFAS 159, fair value liabilities

JEL Classification: M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Demerjian, Peter R. and Donovan, John and Larson, Chad Russell, Fair Value Accounting and Debt Contracting: Evidence from Adoption of SFAS 159 (September 1, 2016). Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 54, No. 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2959521
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,703
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies