Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Traditional Media, Twitter and Business Scandals

34 Pages Posted: 2 May 2017 Last revised: 8 Nov 2017

John (Xuefeng) Jiang

Michigan State University

Michael Shen

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

We examine how traditional media and Twitter cover four business scandals: Wells Fargo fake accounts, EpiPen pricing hikes, Samsung Note 7 faulty battery, and Volkswagen’s cheating in emission tests. There are over 500 articles from Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Washington Post and USA Today and over 400 thousand tweets related to these events. Media organizations including newspapers, TV networks, and other media outlets are active Twitter users with significant followers. They only sent 1% of the scandal related tweets, but their tweets account for 39% of Twitter users that follow all scandal related tweets. Newspaper articles are more highly associated with a firm’s abnormal stock returns and trading volumes than individual tweets. Besides disseminating and magnifying the content of traditional media, individuals provide news lead to traditional media through Twitter (e.g., EpiPen). They also lead newspaper coverage (more timely). However, media and individual Twitter users differ in which scandals to cover and disseminate. Overall, we conclude that social media such as Twitter complement rather than substitute traditional media in covering business scandals.

Keywords: Twitter; Social Media; Business Scandal; Media Coverage

JEL Classification: G14, M10, M14

Suggested Citation:

Jiang, John (Xuefeng) and Shen, Michael, Traditional Media, Twitter and Business Scandals (May 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2959419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2959419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
H Allcott , M Gentzkow
Social Media and Fake News in the 2016 Election
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 31 Posted: 2017
Crossref
M Aspan
Wells Fargo's John Stumpf, the 2013 Banker of the Year Posted: 2013
Eli Bartov , Lucile Faurel , Partha S. Mohanram
Can Twitter Help Predict Firm-Level Earnings and Stock Returns?
Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2631421 Pages: 66 Posted: 14 Sep 2016 Last revised: 19 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Blankespoor , B P Miller , H D White
Initial Evidence on the Market Impact of the XBRL Mandate
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 1468 - 1503 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,057
RANK
116,702
5 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies