Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Maximizing Growth Value through Mergers and Acquisitions

International Journal of Accounting & Business Management, Vol. 3(2), p. 46-61, Nov. 2015

16 Pages Posted: 2 May 2017

Muneeb Lashari

Financial Training & Management Services (FTMS) College

Ismail Nizam

Financial Training & Management Services (FTMS) College

Zubair Hassan

International American University

Date Written: November 30, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this research is to examine Merger and acquisition impact on Size, Profitability, Shareholders wealth, Market share and Segments in USA Technology companies. The research is conducted on 100 companies listed under Technology sector at NASDAQ which covered the period of 2010-2014, total observations of 100 firms-years. The dependent variables are Size, Profitability, Shareholders wealth, Market share and Segments and independent variables is Pre and Post Merger and Acquisition. The research employed Descriptive Pearson correlation coefficient and Paired T-Test and the findings shows only dividends and products to be positively correlated while all other variables found to be insignificant relation with merger and acquisition activity.

Keywords: Merger and Acquisition, Growth Value, Size, Segments, Profitability, Market Share, Shareholders' Wealth, Technology Sector

Suggested Citation:

Lashari, Muneeb and Nizam, Ismail and Hassan, Zubair, Maximizing Growth Value through Mergers and Acquisitions (November 30, 2015). International Journal of Accounting & Business Management, Vol. 3(2), p. 46-61, Nov. 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2960923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Sathishkumar Azhagaiah
Impact of Merger and Acquisitions on Operating Performance: Evidence from Manufacturing Firms in India
Managing Global Transitions , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 121 - 139 Posted: 2014
A Bhattacherjee
Social Science Research: Principles, Methods, and Practices. University of South Florida Scholar Commons , p. 1 - 150 Posted: 2012
Tarba Calipha , Brock
Mergers and acquisitions: A review of phases, motives, and success factors
Advances in Mergers and Acquisitions (Advances in Mergers and Acquisitions , volume 9 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Schoenberg Cartwrightand
30 YEARS OF MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS RESEARCH: RECENT ADVANCES AND FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES
British Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 5 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,579
RANK
306,185
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies