Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forced Voluntary Disclosure

31 Pages Posted: 1 May 2017

Mark Bagnoli

Purdue University

Susan G. Watts

Purdue University

Date Written: March 2017

Abstract

Two–way communication via social media platforms allows the firm to make an initial disclosure decision and then revise it after observing the response on social media to its initial decision. We examine the pressures interactive communications place on disclosure choices and find that negative social pressure “forces” some firm types to respond and disclose information they initially did not disclose. The valuable option to revise reduces the probability of an initial disclosure. Further, an increase in the initial disclosure cost reduces the probability of an initial disclosure but increases the probability of a subsequent disclosure. Similarly, an increase in the cost of a subsequent disclosure increases the probability of an initial disclosure but decreases the probability of a subsequent disclosure. These effects are amplified if the firm is more likely to face social media pressure or if its value is more sensitive to it.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Social Media, Social Pressure

JEL Classification: C72, D82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bagnoli, Mark E. and Watts, Susan G., Forced Voluntary Disclosure (March 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2960701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2960701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
x) | x ≤ t] so that the solution satisfies W (t * ) = c 1 . Consider first lim t→∞ W (t
In this case, t * is the solution to equation (3) in the text. If γ > 0, the manager has the opportunity to switch and disclose her private information. Since she does so only if the expected value of the firm increases, Φ(x) is increasing in γ. Next
Consider first the outcome when γ = 0 (social media is unanticipated) , volume 2
Given this, since Φ(x) is increasing in γ, t * is increasing in γ and so probability of initial disclosure (Pr{x > t * }) declines in γ
From Theorem 1, we know that τ * (t * , α) is independent of t * so long as the solution to (1) is smaller thanˆxthanˆ thanˆx. Thus
Load more
3 Citations
Margarita M. Lenk , John Peter Krahel , Diane J. Janvrin , Brett Considine
Social Technology: An Integrated Strategy and Risk Management Framework
Journal of Information Systems , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 129 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Patrick Velte , Martin Stawinoga
Empirical research on corporate social responsibility assurance (CSRA): A literature review
Journal of Business Economics , volume 87 , issue 8 , p. 1017 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Hao Xue , Ronghuo Zheng
Word-of-Mouth Communication, Noise-Driven Volatility, and Public Disclosure
Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacceco.2020.101363 · Posted: 27 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 31 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,433
RANK
262,392
3 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies