Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qualitative Disclosure and Credit Analysts’ Soft Rating Adjustments

European Accounting Review

46 Pages Posted: 5 May 2017 Last revised: 15 Feb 2022

Zahn Bozanic

Florida State University

Pepa Kraft

HEC Paris

Andrea Tillet

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Date Written: January 31, 2022

Abstract

Using both dictionary-based and topic modelling approaches, we examine whether and how credit analysts use borrowers’ qualitative disclosures to extract information pertaining to credit risk in making their assessments. We first decompose publicly-available ratings into qualitative factors (soft adjustments) and quantitative factors (hard adjustments). We find that credit analysts’ soft adjustments, but not the hard adjustments, reflect information in borrowers’ qualitative disclosures. Next, our results indicate that the association between firms’ qualitative disclosures and soft adjustments varies depending upon the rating agency’s reliance on public disclosure, access to management, and overall market uncertainty. Finally, we examine whether analysts’ use of credit risk-relevant information from borrowers’ qualitative disclosures increases the informativeness of credit rating downgrades. We find that the credit rating downgrades of borrowers that provide more qualitative disclosures are more informative than those who do not; however, the increase in informativeness diminishes after the Dodd-Frank Act, when legal liability and regulatory penalties for credit rating agencies increased.

Keywords: Credit ratings, soft information, qualitative disclosure

JEL Classification: M40, G24

Suggested Citation:

Bozanic, Zahn and Kraft, Pepa and Tillet, Andrea, Qualitative Disclosure and Credit Analysts’ Soft Rating Adjustments (January 31, 2022). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2962491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2962491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
S Agarwal , V Y Chen , W Zhang
The information value of credit rating action reports: A textual analysis
Management Science , volume 62 , issue 8 , p. 2218 - 2240 Posted: 2016
A S Ahmed , D Wang , N Xu
An empirical analysis of the effects of the Dodd-Frank act on determinants of credit ratings Posted: 2019
A Ali , H Kyung , N Li
Revision of regulation of fair disclosure under the Dodd-Frank act and the timing of credit rating issuances Posted: 2016
D Amiram , Z Bozanic , E Rouen
Financial statement errors: Evidence from the distributional properties of financial statement numbers
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 1540 - 1593 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
682
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,053
RANK
87,490
10 Citations
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies