Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Through the Eyes of the Founder: CEO Characteristics and Firms' Regulatory Filings

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, forthcoming

Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 21-02

51 Pages Posted: 4 May 2017 Last revised: 27 Oct 2021

Bradley E. Hendricks

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Mark H. Lang

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

Kenneth J. Merkley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: February 1, 2021

Abstract

We examine whether textual attributes of firms’ regulatory filings reflect CEO characteristics and whether investors consider this relation when assessing firm value. We build on prior research that shows founders have unique personality attributes, particularly overoptimism. We find that 10-K text for founder-led firms is characterized by “excess” optimism relative to current and future realized earnings and relative to non-founder-led firms. The effect is mitigated for firms with large auditors, high litigation risk and high analyst following. Based on stock price at the 10-K release, investors do not appear to appropriately discount the tone, resulting in predictable negative returns during the year subsequent to the 10-K release, particularly for the first two years after firms go public. Collectively, our findings contribute to the existing literature examining the effects of executives on firm disclosure by providing initial evidence about the conditions under which firms’ scripted narrative disclosures reflect CEO characteristics.

Keywords: Regulatory Filings, Mandatory Disclosure, Founder, Managerial Style, CEO

JEL Classification: G14, G18, L26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hendricks, Bradley E. and Lang, Mark H. and Merkley, Kenneth J., Through the Eyes of the Founder: CEO Characteristics and Firms' Regulatory Filings (February 1, 2021). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, forthcoming, Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research Paper No. 21-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2962806 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2962806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and their impact on corporate performance
Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: evidence from the S&P 500
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
R C Anderson , D M Reeb
Board composition: Balancing family influence in S&P 500 firms
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 237 Posted: 2004
M Antia , C Pantzalis , J C Park
CEO decision horizon and firm performance: An empirical investigation
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 288 - 301 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
498
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,357
RANK
130,317
4 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies