Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did Firms Manage Earnings More Aggressively during the Financial Crisis?

20 Pages Posted: 3 May 2017

Pandej Chintrakarn

Mahidol University International College (MUIC)

Pornsit Jiraporn

Pennsylvania State University - School of Graduate Professional Studies (SGPS)

Young Sang Kim

Northern Kentucky University - College of Business; Taejae University

Date Written: May 2, 2017

Abstract

We investigate the extent of earnings management during the financial crisis of 2008 (The Great Recession). Based on a large sample of over 14,000 observations across 15 years, our results show that firms managed earnings less aggressively during the crisis. We also show a severe decline in firm value and profitability during the crisis. Our results are consistent with the notion that, during the crisis, firm performance was so far below the target that no amount of earnings management would have been sufficient to reverse the poor earnings picture. As a result, managers were less motivated to manage earnings. Furthermore, the crisis serves as a convenient excuse for poor performance, lessening the motivation and necessity for managers to manage earnings. Additional analysis including fixed-effects regressions, propensity score matching, and GMM dynamic panel data estimation, shows that our results are robust and are not driven by unobserved heterogeneity. Further analysis documents similar findings for the Dot-com crisis in 2001 and the Asian Financial Crisis in 1997-1998.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Financial Crisis, Discretionary Current Accruals, Economic Crisis

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chintrakarn, Pandej and Jiraporn, Pornsit and Kim, Young Sang, Did Firms Manage Earnings More Aggressively during the Financial Crisis? (May 2, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2962020 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2962020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
J Abarbanell , R Lehavy
Can stock recommendations predict earnings management and analysts' earnings forecast errors
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 1 - 31 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Burgstahler , M Eames
Management of earnings and analysts' forecasts to achieve zero and small positive earnings surprises
Finance, and Accounting , volume 33 , p. 633 - 652 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Erickson , S W Wang
Earnings management by acquiring firms in stock-for-stock mergers
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 27 , p. 149 - 176 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J J Jones
Earnings management during import relief investigations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 193 - 228 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Lin Li , Peter Lam , Wilson Tong , Justin Law
CEO Turnovers Due to Poor Industry Performance: An Examination of the Boards’ Retention Criteria
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, 2024 · 47 Pages · Posted: 16 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 45
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lin Li , Peter Lam , Wilson H.S. Tong , Justin Law
CEO Turnovers Due to Poor Industry Performances: An Examination of the Boards’ Retention Criteria
45 Pages · Posted: 28 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 79
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,967
RANK
317,057
2 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies