Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Data Information Governance by Accountants

International Journal of Accounting and Information Management 26 (1): 153-170, 2018

Posted: 5 May 2017 Last revised: 13 Sep 2019

Emily Coyne

San Jose State University - School of Library & Information Science

Joshua G. Coyne

University of Central Arkansas

Kenton B. Walker

University of Wyoming

Date Written: May 5, 2017

Abstract

Big Data has become increasingly important to multiple facets of the accounting profession, but accountants have little understanding of the steps necessary to convert Big Data into useful information. This limited understanding creates a gap between what accountants can do and what accountants should do to assist in Big Data information governance. We attempt to bridge this gap in two ways. First, we introduce a model of the Big Data life cycle to explain the process of converting Big Data into information. Knowledge of this life cycle is a first step toward enabling accountants to engage in Big Data information governance. Second, we highlight informational and control risks inherent to this life cycle, and we identify information governance activities and agents that can minimize these risks. Because accountants have a strong ability to identify the informational and control needs of internal and external decision makers, they should play a significant role in Big Data information governance. Our model of the Big Data life cycle and information governance provides a first attempt to formalize knowledge that accountants need in a new field of the accounting profession.

Keywords: Information life cycle, Big Data, Information governance

JEL Classification: M4, D83, L21, M15, O32

Suggested Citation:

Coyne, Emily and Coyne, Joshua G. and Walker, Kenton B., Big Data Information Governance by Accountants (May 5, 2017). International Journal of Accounting and Information Management 26 (1): 153-170, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2964041
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,999
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies