Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Valuation Management in Private Equity Fundraising

65 Pages Posted: 10 May 2017

Carsten Bienz

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Charlotte Wallem Rakner

PwC Norway

Anne Therese Rasmussen

Ernst & Young Norway

Date Written: May 10, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the effect of fundraising events on private equity funds self-reported valuations of existing portfolio companies. In the typical private equity fund structure, the general partners (GP) of the funds have both the incentives and the ability to manage their current fund’s track record in order to facilitate fundraising. We show that GPs actively use this ability to manage the valuations of their portfolio companies in practice. For this purpose, we construct a unique dataset containing quarterly valuations for the portfolio companies of a sample of Nordic GPs. Using a matching approach with double treatment, we isolate the fundraising specific valuation effect for Norwegian portfolio companies. We find that this effect materialises through a particular valuation pattern where unrealised returns are shifted in time in order to enable a boost in returns during the run-up to fundraising. This pattern cannot be explained by underlying (good) firm performance.

Keywords: Private Equity, Valuation Management, Fundraising

JEL Classification: G24, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bienz, Carsten and Rakner, Charlotte and Rasmussen, Anne Therese, Strategic Valuation Management in Private Equity Fundraising (May 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2965001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2965001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,558
RANK
301,058
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies