Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Table Versus Formula Presentation Formats on Investors’ Judgments about Executive Compensation

Forthcoming, European Accounting Review

54 Pages Posted: 10 May 2017 Last revised: 6 Mar 2020

Yifei Xia

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Jun Han

The University of Hong Kong

Date Written: March 2, 2020

Abstract

We investigate how the data presentation format of executive compensation disclosures affects investors’ compensation- and investment-related judgment and decisions. We examine the effects of these formats and their underlying mechanisms via laboratory experiments. We compare bonus schemes presented in the table and formula formats and find an interaction effect between data presentation format and compensation favorability. When a manager receives unfavorable compensation due to missed performance targets, the table format is easier to understand than the formula format, whereas the latter appears more scientific than the former. These two effects work in opposite directions and therefore, result in an insignificant difference in approval ratings when the table, versus the formula, format is used. However, when the manager receives favorable compensation for beating performance targets, investors do not pay much attention to the disclosure’s understandability but still favor the formula format, as it has a scientific appearance. Therefore, we find that investors’ approval ratings are higher when using the formula format than the table format. We contribute to several research areas such as information understandability, the halo effect, compensation disclosures, and shareholder voting. Our findings also have practical implications for both managers and investors.

Keywords: Data presentation format, understandability effect, halo effect, bonus scheme, say-on-pay

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Xia, Yifei and Han, Jun, The Effects of Table Versus Formula Presentation Formats on Investors’ Judgments about Executive Compensation (March 2, 2020). Forthcoming, European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2965891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
A Adelberg , J Razek
The cloze procedure: A methodology for determining the understandability of accounting textbooks
The Accounting Review , volume 59 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 122 Posted: 1984
Alissa , W
Boards' response to shareholders' dissatisfaction: The case of shareholders' say on pay in the UK
European Accounting Review , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 727 - 752 Posted: 2015
H S Asay , W B Elliott , K Rennekamp
Disclosure readability and the sensitivity of investors' valuation judgments to outside information
The Accounting Review , volume 92 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2016
Crossref
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
Why do managers explain their earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,813
RANK
702,914
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies