Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Peer Warnings Affect CEO Compensation?

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2017/01

44 Pages Posted: 10 May 2017 Last revised: 26 May 2017

Masako N. Darrough

Baruch College - CUNY

Linna Shi

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Ping Wang

Pace University - Lubin School of Business

Date Written: May 10, 2017

Abstract

In this study, focusing on the period 1996-2010, we conduct an empirical investigation of how warnings by industry peer firms about future earnings affect CEO compensation structure. These warnings contain information about the industry, signaling dim industry prospects and possibly triggering negative spillovers on stock prices. We predict that firms respond to industry-wide negative information by changing the compensation mix to make it more future-oriented and by reducing pay-performance sensitivity to shield CEOs from negative factors beyond their control. We find that (1) for firms that issue warnings, peer warnings are associated with a reduction in pay-performance sensitivity; and (2) for firms that do not issue warnings, peer warnings are associated with a modification in compensation mix, such that it becomes more equity-based and future-oriented, similarly to the adjustment made to CEO compensation in the wake of self-warnings. Our results are robust to different definitions of warnings and to the exclusion of annual earnings warnings. However, the results do not hold after 2005, which may be due to factors such as a decline in the use of option compensation, a decrease in the issuance of warnings outside of the announcement window, and changing patterns in management guidance behavior.

Keywords: Relative Performance Evaluation, Information Transfer, Spillover Effect, Management Guidance, Warnings, CEO Compensation

JEL Classification: M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Darrough, Masako N. and Shi, Linna and Wang, Ping, Do Peer Warnings Affect CEO Compensation? (May 10, 2017). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Pace University Accounting Research Paper No. 2017/01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2965009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
RANK
362,694
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies