Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Long-Tenured Independent Directors and Firm Performance

Strategic Management Journal, Forthcoming

44 Pages Posted: 11 May 2017 Last revised: 15 Oct 2021

Stefano Bonini

Stevens Institute of Technology - School of Business

Justin Deng

Rutgers University - Camden

Mascia Ferrari

Università degli studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia (UNIMORE) - Dipartimento di Comunicazione ed Economia

Kose John

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

David Gaddis Ross

University of Florida

Date Written: September 15, 2021

Abstract

Agency perspectives suggest long-tenured independent directors (LTIDs) may be cronies of the CEO, making their boards less effective, but we theorize that LTIDs may have particular expertise and motivation to improve board effectiveness and ultimately firm performance. We find strong support for this prediction using 15 years of data on the S&P 1,500 firms and an instrument based on director age at time of hire. We also find that an LTID adds more value to firms that are complex or mature, had more CEOs during the LTID’s tenure, and have less entrenched management. Post-hoc analyses of director deaths and shareholder class action lawsuits and activist motions provide additional evidence that LTIDs add value to the firms on whose boards they serve.

Keywords: Corporate governance, firm performance, boards, tenure

JEL Classification: G32, G38, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bonini, Stefano and Deng, Justin and Ferrari, Mascia and John, Kose and Ross, David Gaddis, Long-Tenured Independent Directors and Firm Performance (September 15, 2021). Strategic Management Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2965588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2965588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
N Y Amoah , Ap ; Tang , D Anderson , M V Bjarnadóttir , C L Dezső , D G Ross
Board, audit committee and restatement-induced class action lawsuits
Advances in International Accounting , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 214 - 231 Posted: 2010
R C Anderson , T W Bates , J M Bizjak , M L Lemmon
Corporate governance and firm diversification
Financial Management , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 22 Posted: 2000
J D Angrist , J-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricistís Companion Posted: 2009
B E Ashforth , F Mael
Social identity theory and the organization
Academy of Management Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 39 Posted: 1989
Load more
14 Citations
Yuni Pristiwati Noer Widianingsih , Doddy Setiawan
The tenure of directors and value relevance of accounting information
SN Business & Economics , volume 3 , issue 6 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Barbara Sveva Magnanelli , Giulia Paolucci , Luca Pirolo
Diversity in boardrooms and firm performance: The role of tenure and educational level of board members
Corporate Board role duties and composition , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 31 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Hui Liang James , Thanh Ngo , Hongxia Wang
Independent director tenure and corporate transparency
The North American Journal of Economics and Finance , volume 57 , p. 101413 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Suzette Viviers , Nadia Mans-Kemp
Director overboardedness in South Africa: evaluating the experience and busyness hypotheses
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 68 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,098
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,475
RANK
45,820
14 Citations
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies