Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CPAs and Office Audit Quality

47 Pages Posted: 10 May 2017 Last revised: 7 Oct 2022

Albert Nagy

John Carroll University - Boler School of Business

Matthew Sherwood

University of Massachusetts Amherst - Isenberg School of Management

Ally Zimmerman

Florida State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 2, 2022

Abstract

Both accounting firms and regulators recognize the importance of human capital in the audit function, yet we know little about whether and how the level of professionally qualified human capital varies across offices of an audit firm and whether it is associated with audit quality. In this paper, we examine the association between office professionally qualified human capital and audit quality. Using hand-collected data on Big 4 audit firm office CPA levels from 30 U.S. cities, we find that offices with relatively more professionally qualified human capital deliver higher quality audits, with this benefit being more pronounced for audits performed during busy season than for non-busy season audits. The results underscore the importance of the availability of professionally qualified human capital in an audit office to the office’s audit quality. Our finding of CPA levels being an office-level audit quality indicator will potentially help the PCAOB in its ongoing Audit Quality Indicator (AQI) project, whose goal is to assist audit firms, clients, and investors in measuring audit quality. Furthermore, the results lend credibility to the CPA designation, which helps justify the AICPA’s, NASBA’s, and state Accountancy Boards’ regulatory roles of admitting and licensing qualified candidates.

Keywords: audit firm human resources capacity, audit workload, audit quality, audit report lag, audit office characteristics

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Nagy, Albert and Sherwood, Matthew and Zimmerman, Aleksandra, CPAs and Office Audit Quality (August 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2965292 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2965292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
D , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The Economics of Audit Production: What Matters for Audit Quality? An Empirical Analysis of the Role of Mid-level Managers within the Audit Firm
Final Report Posted: 2008-10-06
R D , H Chang , Y C Kao
Impact of information technology on public accounting firm productivity
Statement available at , volume 16 , p. 209 - 222 Posted: 2002
R D Banker , H Chang , R Cunningham
The public accounting industry production function
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 281 Posted: 2003
R D Banker , H Chang , R Natarajan
Productivity change, technical progress, and relative efficiency change in the public accounting industry
Management Science , volume 51 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 304 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,955
RANK
129,684
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies