Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Determinants and Consequences of the Proactive Disclosure of Internal Control Weaknesses and Remediation Progress in IPO

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (Forthcoming)

Posted: 11 May 2017 Last revised: 10 Aug 2017

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Jagan Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Jong Eun Lee

Sungkyunkwan University

Yinqi Zhang

American University

Date Written: July 1, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates (a) why some IPO firms proactively disclose internal control weaknesses (ICWs) and remediation progress in their prospectuses before going public, despite being exempt from the requirements of Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act at the time of IPO, and (b) the association of such disclosures with IPO underpricing (i.e., the first-day return). We find that IPO firms that proactively disclose ICWs and remediation progress have higher litigation risk, are audited by industry specialist auditors, and are more likely to have audit committees prior to the IPO, compared with firms that do not disclose such information, after controlling for the ex-ante probability of having ICWs. IPO underpricing is lower for firms that disclose ICWs and remediation progress, consistent with the conjecture that the disclosure of ICWs and remediation progress signals extensive premarket due diligence, thus reducing the information asymmetry between informed and uninformed investors.

Keywords: Internal Control Weaknesses; SOX 302; SOX 404; IPO Underpricing

JEL Classification: G24; K22; M13; M41; M42; M49

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Krishnan, Jagan and Lee, Jong Eun and Zhang, Yinqi, Economic Determinants and Consequences of the Proactive Disclosure of Internal Control Weaknesses and Remediation Progress in IPO (July 1, 2017). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2966375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2966375
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,642
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies