Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Have Estimates of Cost Stickiness Changed Across Listing Cohorts?

Forthcoming, Journal of Management Control

30 Pages Posted: 10 May 2017 Last revised: 28 Feb 2018

Thomas R. Loy

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Sven Hartlieb

University of Innsbruck

Date Written: February 22, 2018

Abstract

While the discussion of changes in financial accounting properties over time is already well-established, there is a lack of evidence whether changing firm compositions in empirical samples might bias cost stickiness research. We document that with each additional listing cohort, the U.S. public firm universe becomes more knowledge-intensive and, at the same time, more cost sticky. Higher reliance on temporary labor by newer listing cohorts partly mitigates this development. Our results call for the use of listing cohort-specific slopes to allow for cohort-specific estimates of cost stickiness in future research.

Keywords: Asymmetric Cost Behavior; Listing Cohorts; Adjustment Costs

JEL Classification: D22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Loy, Thomas R. and Hartlieb, Sven, Have Estimates of Cost Stickiness Changed Across Listing Cohorts? (February 22, 2018). Forthcoming, Journal of Management Control, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2966190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2966190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Aicpa
Statement of Position 98-1 -Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use , p. 2018 - 2020 Posted: 1998
M C Anderson , R D Banker , S N Janakiraman
Are Selling, General, and Administrate Costs "Sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Rajiv D. Banker , Dmitri Byzalov , Shunlan Fang , Yi Liang
Cost Management Research
Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming Pages: 64 Posted: 10 Dec 2016 Last revised: 26 Oct 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R D Banker , S Basu , D Byzalov , J Chen
The Confounding Effect of Cost Stickiness on Conservatism Estimates
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 61 , issue 1 , p. 203 - 220 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
RANK
340,852
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies