Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Cash Holdings: Causes and Consequences

International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 42, 2015

Posted: 12 May 2017

Kevin Amess

Nottingham University Business School

Sanjay Banerji

University of Nottingham

Athanasios Lampousis

Nottingham University Business School

Date Written: March 31, 2015

Abstract

The considerable growth in corporate cash holdings around the world has prompted scholarly interest. Consequently, there is now a large academic literature examining cash holdings and their impact on corporate outcomes and firm values. This article reviews and synthesizes the literature to offer insight into two primary motives to hold cash, namely a precautionary and an agency motive. It first presents a stylized model that explores the trade-off in holding cash between these two motives and then examines empirical evidence to determine how existing theories are supported by the data. In addition, we examine the effectiveness of a variety of corporate governance devices in curtailing cash holdings and also the extent to which these devices offer investors’ confidence that cash will not be wasted. Finally, after documenting that large cash holdings are an international phenomenon, we review cross-country studies and give particular attention to two key emerging economies: China and India.

Keywords: cash holdings, liquidity, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Amess, Kevin and Banerji, Sanjay and Lampousis, Athanasios, Corporate Cash Holdings: Causes and Consequences (March 31, 2015). International Review of Financial Analysis, Vol. 42, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2966766
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,532
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies