Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Corporate Sustainability Disclosures: An Analysis of a Dataset from One Large Asset Owner

55 Pages Posted: 13 May 2017

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Jody Grewal

Joseph L. Rotman School of Management - University of Toronto

Date Written: May 11, 2017

Abstract

Corporate environmental and social reporting lacks the comparability across companies that is a characteristic of financial information. To address this weakness, Norges Bank Investment Management (NBIM) created analytical frameworks to measure the quality and scope of reporting relating to three focus areas: climate change, water and children’s rights. By translating information published by a global set of companies into standardized data, NBIM has constructed a dataset that can be used for analyzing and comparing companies across time and within sectors.

The purpose of this project is to understand the value relevance of NBIM’s dataset. First, we model the determinants of the disclosure scores and climate change performance score. Consistent with prior literature, we find that firms that are larger, higher growth, less closely held and with higher analyst coverage tend to disclose more. We find that the climate change performance score is less a function of observable firm characteristics and is more idiosyncratic. This highlights the different dynamics of measures that capture actual performance, versus metrics that capture disclosures of efforts.

Next, we take the ‘residual’ scores – the part of the scores that is uncorrelated with observable firm characteristics, industry and country membership – and test for associations with future financial performance. Across all of our models, the residual disclosure score is not robustly correlated with any metric of future financial performance. However, we find that the residual component of the climate change performance score is significantly related to future financial performance. We find even stronger associations for the subset of firms that have above median exposure to climate change risks.

We perform supplementary analysis to understand the motivation behind these disclosures. We find that some firms choose to disclose more because they are currently facing more problems, as measured by the level of negative media attention that the firm receives on the focal issue. We also find that firms disclosing more in the past received more negative media attention on that focal issue in the future. These results hold after controlling for factors, such as firm size, that influence both media attention and disclosure levels. This suggests that higher disclosure around an issue is not necessarily indicative of better current or future performance on the issue but in some cases, it is a signal of future bad news. Conversely, we find a negative relation between the climate change performance score and the current level of negative media attention, suggesting that this performance measure indeed captures meaningful efforts to manage climate-related risks.

Keywords: sustainability, nonfinancial data, information, value relevance

JEL Classification: M4, G14

Suggested Citation:

Serafeim, George and Grewal, Jyothika, The Value Relevance of Corporate Sustainability Disclosures: An Analysis of a Dataset from One Large Asset Owner (May 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2966767 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2966767
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
5 Citations
Ellen Pei-yi Yu , Christine Qian Guo , Bac Van Luu
Environmental, social and governance transparency and firm value
Business Strategy and the Environment , volume 27 , issue 7 , p. 987 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Ellen Pei-yi Yu , Bac Van Luu
International variations in ESG disclosure – Do cross-listed companies care more?
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 75 , p. 101731 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Patrick C. Leyens
Globalisation of Corporate Social Responsibility and its Impact on Corporate Governance
, p. 157 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Ellen Pei-yi Yu , Bac Van Luu , Catherine Huirong Chen
Greenwashing in environmental, social and governance disclosures
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 52 , p. 101192 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
966
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,100
RANK
54,921
5 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies