Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-GAAP Reporting: Evidence from Academia and Current Practice

Forthcoming, Journal of Business Finance & Accounting

Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2966778

55 Pages Posted: 11 May 2017 Last revised: 16 Dec 2017

Dirk E. Black

Iowa State University - College of Business

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Jack T. Ciesielski

R.G. Associates

Benjamin C. Whipple

University of Georgia - C. Herman and Mary Virginia Terry College of Business

Date Written: May 11, 2017

Abstract

The number of firms reporting earnings on a non-GAAP basis has dramatically increased over the past decade, and non-GAAP reporting is now commonplace in capital markets. This proliferation of non-GAAP reporting has renewed both regulators’ and standard setters’ interest in these alternative performance metrics. For example, the SEC, FASB, and IASB have all recently questioned what this increasing reporting trend means for IFRS- and U.S.-GAAP-based reporting and whether these measures are misleading to investors. This increasing focus on non-GAAP metrics motivates us to synthesize the nearly two decades of research on non-GAAP reporting to provide insights on what academics have learned to date about this reporting practice. Then, we utilize a novel dataset of detailed non-GAAP disclosures to provide new descriptive evidence on current trends in non-GAAP reporting and its recent proliferation. Finally, we discuss important questions for future researchers to consider in moving the literature forward.

Keywords: Non-GAAP earnings, regulation, standard setting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Black, Dirk E. and Christensen, Theodore E. and Ciesielski, Jack T. and Whipple, Benjamin C., Non-GAAP Reporting: Evidence from Academia and Current Practice (May 11, 2017). Forthcoming, Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Tuck School of Business Working Paper No. 2966778, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2966778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2966778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,657
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,779
RANK
24,943
24 Citations
144 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies