Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhanced Business Reporting: Value Relevance and Determinants of Valuation-Related Disclosures

Journal of Intellectual Capital, Forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 11 May 2017

Christine Reitmaier

University of Augsburg

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Date Written: April 14, 2017

Abstract

Purpose: Enhanced Business Reporting (EBR) seeks to address the information needs of investors when making company valuations for investment decisions. The paper analyses the relevance for market valuation of EBR disclosures that are directly related to firm valuation (Value Based Reporting, VBR).

Design/methodology/approach: Data are hand collected from annual reports of German publicly listed companies over 5 years. The content analysis is based on the valuation-related disclosure framework of the German Schmalenbach Society of Business Administration. A 2SLS approach accounts for potential endogeneity.

Findings: Share-based compensation, leverage, corporate size, and share volatility are significant determinants of VBR. The level of VBR is significantly associated with market values and provides additional market value explanatory power, indicating its relevance to investors in the process of valuation and decision making. Also, the relevance of book value and earnings for explaining market values increases for firms with better VBR. Findings are robust to the exclusion of banks and assurance companies and to alternative model and variable specifications.

Research limitations/implications: The research contributes to the literature on voluntary disclosures by testing an EBR framework explicitly derived from valuation theory. The results provide indirect evidence of investors’ use of respective valuation techniques in decision making. A contribution is made to the value relevance literature by showing that valuation-related disclosures constitute a suitable proxy for ‘other information’ in the Ohlson (1995) model. Such disclosures complement traditional accounting metrics, i.e. book value and earnings, as basis for valuations. Potential caveats relate to the content analysis of annual reports and the endogeneity of voluntary disclosures.

Originality/value: This paper informs the debate on further developments of EBR in helping to identify important components thereof.

Keywords: Business Reporting, Integrated Reporting, Value Reporting, Valuation, Disclosure, Accounting Choice, Value Relevance

JEL Classification: M40, M41, C26

Suggested Citation:

Reitmaier, Christine and Schultze, Wolfgang, Enhanced Business Reporting: Value Relevance and Determinants of Valuation-Related Disclosures (April 14, 2017). Journal of Intellectual Capital, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2966075
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
206 References
E Amir , B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: the wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
C S Armstrong , J E Core , D J Taylor , R E Verrecchia
When does Information Asymmetry affect Cost of Capital
Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Axjonow , J Ernstberger , Ch Pott
The Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure on Corporate Reputation: A Non-professional Stakeholder Perspective
Journal of Business Ethics , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Baetge , H Solmecke
Grundsätze und Konzeption des Value Reporting
Zeitschrift für Controlling & Management , issue 3 , p. 16 - 30 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,065
RANK
251,747
2 Citations
206 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies