Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Committee Effectiveness and CSR Assurance

48 Pages Posted: 13 May 2017

Larelle Law Chapple

QUT School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Zixi Chen

Queensland University of Technology

Yuyu Zhang

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 10, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of sustainability committee effectiveness on a company’s voluntary choice to obtain Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) assurance. This voluntary assurance engagement has a high degree of variation that allows firm management to negotiate the assurance engagement with assurance providers. Results indicate that the existence of a sustainability committee and committee effectiveness are not associated with the decision to obtain assurance for CSR reports; however, sustainability committee effectiveness influences the details of the assurance engagement. When a firm’s sustainability committee is more effective, it is more likely to obtain a high level of assurance, use ISAE 3000 as criteria, choose accounting firms as assurance providers and assure a narrower scope of CSR information. This study forms a novel examination of the sustainability committee as a corporate governance mechanism.

Keywords: Sustainability Committee, CSR, CSR Assurance, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G34, M42, M14

Suggested Citation:

Law Chapple, Larelle and Chen, Zixi and Zhang, Yuyu, Sustainability Committee Effectiveness and CSR Assurance (March 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2967165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2967165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
695
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,144
RANK
85,579
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies