Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Negotiated Bank Finance, Earning Quality and Firm Characteristics: Indian Evidence

18 Pages Posted: 16 May 2017 Last revised: 3 Jun 2018

Santanu K. Ganguli

Jaipuria Institute of Management, Noida

Soumya Guha Deb

Indian Institute of Management Sambalpur; Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Sambalpur

Date Written: May 16, 2017

Abstract

Based on ‘ agency theory’ the present study argues that in a negotiated and collateral security based debt financing system where the need for debt financing of the firms is largely met by the banks in absence of active and liquid corporate debt market , there should be a two way relationship between debt and earning quality. More specifically, we argue that banks, in the interest of better credit risk management, should extend finance to firms with reliable earning quality, and as the debt monitors the managerial behavior of the firms, earning quality of the firms should also get impacted by debt through closer scrutiny by lenders. To our knowledge no prior study has covered the relation between debt and earning quality from this angle so extensively in a bank dominated finance system of an emerging market. Lending policy is set by banks on the basis of overall Reserve Bank of India’s ( the central Bank) circulars and directives. In this framework earning quality may not appear to play any direct role in granting and enhancing credit limit, though the asset quality of banks is contingent upon ‘true and fair’ reflection of earning and cash flow generation of the borrowing firms. The empirical evidence seems to suggest that the firms might report ‘abnormal accrual’ to enjoy higher credit limit. Consistent with the result we find that tangible assets as ‘collateral security’ plays a more decisive role in mitigating credit risk rather than earning quality (being essentially a qualitative attribute).

Keywords: Agency Theory, Debt, Earning Quality, Negotiated Bank Finance

JEL Classification: G32, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ganguli, Santanu K. and Guha Deb, Soumya and Guha Deb, Soumya, Negotiated Bank Finance, Earning Quality and Firm Characteristics: Indian Evidence (May 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2968947 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2968947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Berle , G Means
The Modern Corporation and Private Property Posted: 1932
Q Cheng , T D Warfield
Equity incentives and earnings management. The accounting review , volume 80 , p. 441 - 476 Posted: 2005
M H Cho
Ownership structure, investment, and the corporate value: an empirical analysis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 121 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A A Christie , J L Zimmerman
Efficient and opportunistic choices of accounting procedures: Corporate control contests
Accounting Review , p. 539 - 566 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,183
RANK
467,197
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies