Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Environment and Earnings Management of Dual Class Firms around the World

Journal of Banking & Finance, Volume 74, Pages 1–23, January 2017

59 Pages Posted: 16 May 2017

Ting Li

Skidmore College - Department of Management and Business

Nataliya S. Zaiats

Suffolk University - Sawyer School of Management

Date Written: October 2016

Abstract

This study examines the information environment and earnings management of dual class firms. Motivated by the pronounced entrenchment phenomenon at dual class firms due to divergence between voting and cash flow rights, we are interested in whether dual class firms adopt corporate disclosure choices that imply greater opacity as well as employ judgment in financing reporting to misguide the outside shareholders about the firm’s true performance. Based on a sample of 12,672 firms from 19 countries during 1994-2010, we find that dual class status is associated with poorer information environment and increased accrual-based earnings management, consistent with the notion that managers of dual class firms exhibit incentives to conceal private control benefits from the outside shareholders. Results further suggest that dual class ownership structure weakens the mitigating impact of investor protection on earnings management. Following unification, firms experience an improvement in information environment and a decrease in earnings manipulation.

Keywords: Dual Class; Earnings Management; Information Environment; Investor Protection

JEL Classification: G14; G15; G32; G34

Suggested Citation:

Li, Ting and Zaiats, Nataliya S., Information Environment and Earnings Management of Dual Class Firms around the World (October 2016). Journal of Banking & Finance, Volume 74, Pages 1–23, January 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2968563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
M F Mcnichols
The quality of accruals and earnings: the role of accrual estimation errors: discussion
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 61 - 69 Posted: 2002
Crossref
R Morck , B Yeung , W Yu
The information content of stock markets: why do emerging markets have synchronous stock price movements
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 58 , p. 215 - 260 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J N Myers , L A Myers , D J Skinner
Earnings momentum and earnings management
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 22 , p. 249 - 284 Posted: 2007
Crossref
T Nenova
The value of corporate voting rights and control: a cross-country analysis
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 68 , p. 325 - 351 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,551
RANK
459,150
5 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies