Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does CEO Tenure Affect Corporate Income Tax Planning and Financial Reporting Decisions?

42 Pages Posted: 19 May 2017 Last revised: 12 Dec 2017

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Kathleen Schuchard

University of Tennessee, Knoxville

Brian Williams

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Date Written: December 11, 2017

Abstract

This study examines whether corporate tax planning and financial reporting of income taxes vary systematically with CEO tenure. Using a CEO-firm fixed effects design, we find that the GAAP effective tax rate (ETR) is higher in the early years of the CEOs’ tenure and lowest in the last year of the CEOs’ tenure. In contrast, we find no difference in the cash ETR over the CEO’s tenure. These results suggest that the financial reporting of income taxes exhibits more variation over the CEO’s tenure than the underlying corporate tax planning and are consistent with managers being cautious in the financial reporting of income taxes early in their tenure. Further analysis shows that CEOs achieve these financial reporting outcomes in part by designating earnings as permanently reinvested and by using discretion in the reserve for uncertain tax benefits. These findings should be of interest to compensation committees and boards of directors, responsible for incentivizing and evaluating CEOs.

Suggested Citation:

Goldman, Nathan C. and Schuchard, Kathleen and Williams, Brian, How Does CEO Tenure Affect Corporate Income Tax Planning and Financial Reporting Decisions? (December 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2969662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2969662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Ningzhong Li , Terry Shevlin , Weining Zhang
Managerial Career Concerns and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine*
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 7 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Muhammad Kabir , Harun Rashid
Do generalist CEOs engage in more tax avoidance than specialist CEOs?
Accounting and Business Research , volume 54 , issue 5 , p. 525 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Ofuan James Ilaboya , Edosa Joshua Aronmwan
Chief Executive Officer’s attributes and tax avoidance: evidence from Nigeria
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 99 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Ningzhong Li , Terry J. Shevlin , Weining Zhang
Managerial Career Concerns and Corporate Tax Avoidance: Evidence from the Inevitable Disclosure Doctrine
53 Pages · Posted: 17 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 497
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
713
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,400
RANK
82,629
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies