Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Men of Honor: Military CEOS and Directors in Korea

Asian Finance Association (AsianFA) 2017 Conference

57 Pages Posted: 18 May 2017

Hyun-Dong Kim

Graduate School of International Studies, Sogang University

Ji Yeol Jimmy Oh

Sungkyunkwan University

Kwangwoo Park

College of Business, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Date Written: May 18, 2017

Abstract

In this paper, we examine whether the presence of ex-military board directors affects firms’ financial policies and ethical behavior in Korea, a country where the military has a unique historical role in society. Despite prolonged exposure to military rule during their formative years, firms with ex-military-officer CEOs and inside directors are substantially less likely to commit corporate fraud. Moreover, the positive association between Chaebol business groups and fraud is significantly weakened in the presence of ex-military directors. These managers and insiders also adopt more conservative managerial policies in normal times but take more risks during crisis periods. However, when these directors are appointed primarily for external networking purposes, their presence has little effect on a firm’s corporate policies or ethical behavior. Thus, a director with exposure to military values does appear to enhance corporate ethics, but only when he holds an appropriate position to do so.

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Hyun-Dong and Oh, Ji Yeol Jimmy and Park, Kwangwoo, Men of Honor: Military CEOS and Directors in Korea (May 18, 2017). Asian Finance Association (AsianFA) 2017 Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2970696 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2970696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
J Stock , M Yogo
Identification and inference for econometric models: Essays in honor of Thomas Rothemberg , p. 80 - 108 Posted: 2005
B Wansink , C Payne , K Ittersum
Profiling the heroic leader: Empirical lessons from combat-decorated veterans of World War II
Leadership Quarterly , volume 19 , p. 547 - 555 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Weisbach
Outside directors and CEO turnover
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 20 , p. 431 - 460 Posted: 1988
Crossref
D Yermack
Higher market valuation of companies with a small board of directors
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 40 , p. 185 - 211 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,594
RANK
366,257
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies