Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Board Declassifications: A Response to Cremers and Sepe

10 Pages Posted: 18 May 2017 Last revised: 22 May 2017

Lucian A. Bebchuk

Harvard Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Alma Cohen

Harvard Law School; Harvard Law School; Tel Aviv University - Eitan Berglas School of Economics; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

This note offers an initial response to a study released earlier this month by Martijn Cremers and Simone Sepe, “Board Declassification Activism: The Financial Value of the Shareholder Rights Project.” Putting aside methodological questions about their analysis and accepting their results “as is,” we show that the results of this study do not provide a basis for opposing board declassifications. Appropriately interpreted, the results provide some significant evidence that declassifications are beneficial and no evidence that they are value-reducing. The results obtained for preceding years in prior published work by the authors either do not hold or are substantially reversed in the period examined by the current study. Overall, the results of the current study contradict and undermine the conclusions in the authors’ earlier published work in support of staggered boards.

JEL Classification: G32, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bebchuk, Lucian A. and Cohen, Alma, Recent Board Declassifications: A Response to Cremers and Sepe (May 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2970629 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2970629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
On the whole, the results undermine the strong endorsement of staggered boards put forward by CS2016 and justify the authors' current retreat from this endorsement
Y Amihud , S Stoyanov
Do staggered boards harm shareholders? Forthcoming
Journal of Financial Economics Posted: 2016
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , A Cohen
The costs of entrenched boards
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 78 , p. 409 - 433 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Cohen , C Wang
How do staggered boards affect shareholder value? Evidence from a natural experiment
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 110 , p. 627 - 641 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
William C Johnson , Jonathan M Karpoff , Sangho Yi , David Denis
The Life Cycle Effects of Corporate Takeover Defenses
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 35 , issue 6 , p. 2879 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Mergers, Acquisitions, and Other Restructuring Activities
, p. 523 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Donald M. DePamphilis
Mergers, Acquisitions, and Other Restructuring Activities
, p. 65 Posted: 2019
Crossref
William C Johnson , Jonathan M Karpoff , Sangho Yi , David Denis
Withdrawn as duplicate: The Life Cycle Effects of Corporate Takeover Defenses
The Quarterly Journal of Mechanics and Applied Mathematics , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. e1 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
567
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,063
RANK
110,945
4 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies