Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Internal Audits Associated with Reductions in Perceived Risk?

41 Pages Posted: 18 May 2017 Last revised: 24 Mar 2020

Joseph V. Carcello

University of Tennessee

Marc Eulerich

University of Duisburg-Essen, Mercator School of Management

Adi Masli

University of Arkansas - Sam M. Walton College of Business

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 23, 2020

Abstract

We examine whether internal auditing provides value to organizations by reducing risk. We compare the changes in risks between audited business units and matched non-audited units within the same company. This design allows us to isolate the importance of an internal audit while holding constant changes in risk due to the organization and time period. Based on ratings from the heads of audited and non-audited units, we find that managers of audited units perceive a greater decline in risk as well as a greater increase in performance compared to managers of non-audited units. We also find that companies that have had a quality assurance review and are used as a management training ground are associated with greater reductions in risk and improved overall performance. Our study contributes to the academic literature by documenting a new facet of internal audit benefits—risk reduction—and internal audit characteristics that increase risk reduction.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Risk Management, Operational Risk, Financial Risk, Compliance Risk

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, G30

Suggested Citation:

Carcello, Joseph V. and Eulerich, Marc and Masli, Adi and Wood, David A., Are Internal Audits Associated with Reductions in Perceived Risk? (March 23, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2970045 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2970045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit fee reductions from internal audit-provided assistance: The incremental impact of internal audit characteristics
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2012
Crossref
L J Abbott , B Daughtery , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
Crossref
D Anderson
Relationships and Risk. Can be accessed via Posted: 2016
U L Anderson , M H Christ , K M Johnstone , L E Rittenberg
A post-SOX examination of factors associated with the size of internal audit functions
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 191 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,772
RANK
39,926
24 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies