Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Concentration and Earnings Management: Evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

65 Pages Posted: 19 May 2017 Last revised: 25 May 2022

Ryoonhee Kim

Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)

Weiqing Luo

City University of Hong Kong

Date Written: April 18, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the level of customer concentration can moderate the effect of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) on the earnings management of U.S. corporations. Customer concentration can act as a mechanism for reducing agency problems by pressuring supplier firms to be more efficient. Large customers may act as certifying agents for a supplier, and they may reduce information asymmetries about the supplier. These two channels suggest that customer concentration may affect corporate earnings management and hence generate heterogeneity in the effects of SOX. This paper documents that SOX has led firms with low customer concentration to reduce accrual-based earnings management more than those with high customer concentration have. The effect of customer concentration is especially pronounced when firms are involved in higher relationship-specific investments. The results are robust to accounting for endogeneity and alternative measures of discretionary accruals and customer concentration.

Keywords: Customer concentration, internal control, SOX, earnings management

JEL Classification: M41, D82, G30

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Ryoonhee and Luo, Weiqing, Customer Concentration and Earnings Management: Evidence from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (April 18, 2017). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2970368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2970368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
B K Ak , P N Patatoukas
Customer-base concentration and inventory efficiencies: Evidence from the manufacturing sector , volume 25 , p. 258 - 272 Posted: 2016
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
E J Allen , C R Larson , R G Sloan
Accrual reversals, earnings and stock returns
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 129 Posted: 2013
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,236
RANK
596,846
12 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies