Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementation of Importance Performance Analysis Methods as Government Internal Supervisory Apparatus (GISA) Performance Measurements in Indonesian Provinces

12 Pages Posted: 20 May 2017

Amir Indrabudiman

Universitas Budi Luhur; Universitas Padjadjaran, Students

Wuri Handayani

Budi Luhur University, Students

Dewi Faeni

Budi Luhur University

Date Written: February 10, 2017

Abstract

Government Internal Supervisory Apparatus (GISA) is a government agency that has the task of internal supervision include: Audit, Review and Planning, evaluation, monitoring, consulting, assistance and oversight activities of other, shall comply with the code of ethics of internal auditors in the government of Indonesia which contains the rules of conduct and ethics in order to provide added value for effectiveness and efficiency organization. Therefore, by implementing the Code of Ethics for auditors who are the subject of particular scrutiny, will certainly help the organization/institution in realizing good governance as part of a national duty. The purposes of this research are to analyze the performance of Government Internal Supervisory Apparatus (GISA) in order to realize Good Governance in Indonesian Provinces. The method of this research is a Survey and instrument of analysis employed is Importance Performance Analysis (IPA) with 123 respondents District/City Government in Jakarta, Banten and West Java. The gap between importance and performance from both perspectives were also evaluated. The findings of this study will be applied to improve performance of Government Internal Supervisory Apparatus (GISA) in order to realize Good Governance in Indonesian Provinces.

Keywords: Government Internal Supervisory Apparatus (GISA) and Importance Performance Analysis

Suggested Citation:

Indrabudiman, Amir and Handayani, Wuri and Faeni, Dewi, Implementation of Importance Performance Analysis Methods as Government Internal Supervisory Apparatus (GISA) Performance Measurements in Indonesian Provinces (February 10, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971307 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2971307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Kode Etik Auditor Intern Pemerintah Indonesia Posted: 2014
Bpkp
Warta Pengawasan: Membangun good governance menuju menuju clean government
Majalah Triwulan BPKP , p. 854 - 0519 Posted: 2013
_____
Warta Pengawasan: Membangun good governance menuju menuju clean government
Majalah Triwulan BPKP , p. 854 - 0519 Posted: 2013
_____
Sistem Pengendalian Intern Pemerintah Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,532
RANK
517,938
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies