Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cooperative or Competitive? Private Regulators and Public Supervisors in the Post-Crisis European Financial Services Landscape

Policy and Society, Volume 35, Issue 1, Pages 103–114, March 2016

Posted: 22 May 2017

Olha O. Cherednychenko

University of Groningen - Faculty of Law

Date Written: January 15, 2016

Abstract

This article explores the interplay between private regulators and public supervisors within principles-based regulation and meta-regulation in the post-crisis European retail financial services landscape. It shows that the way in which the compliance with such regulatory frameworks is supervised and enforced may determine the type of relationship between private regulators and public supervisors – cooperative or competitive – that prevails at a specific moment in time. While there is evidence of both cooperation and competition between the two in the post-crisis era, a predominantly competitive relationship between private regulators and public watchdogs may severely undermine the practical importance of co-governance arrangements. A significant degree of cooperation between private regulators and public supervisors is key to ensuring their effectiveness. Public supervision and enforcement must therefore be responsive to the peculiarities of co-governance arrangements

Note: Original article is available at the following link: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1016/j.polsoc.2015.12.005.

Keywords: Private Regulation, Public Supervision, Public Enforcement, Co-Governance, Cooperation, Competition, Financial Services, EU

JEL Classification: K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Cherednychenko, Olha O., Cooperative or Competitive? Private Regulators and Public Supervisors in the Post-Crisis European Financial Services Landscape (January 15, 2016). Policy and Society, Volume 35, Issue 1, Pages 103–114, March 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2971192
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,042
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies