Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Post-litigation reporting conservatism

50 Pages Posted: 28 May 2017 Last revised: 28 Jul 2025

Mark Kim

University of California, Los Angeles - Anderson School of Management

Spencer Pierce

Florida State University - College of Business

Frank Heflin

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting

James Moon

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: July 28, 2025

Abstract

We investigate changes in financial reporting conservatism arising from shareholder lawsuits. We find that sued firms respond to 10b-5 litigation with increased accounting conservatism. Consistent with a spillover effect, we also find that non-sued peer firms that share an auditor increase accounting conservatism following litigation. Despite the FASB having eliminated conservatism as an essential qualitative characteristic from the conceptual framework in 2010, we find the post-suit increase in conservatism persists after 2010, suggesting a capital market demand for conservatism even without regulator intervention. Our results, which support the notion that litigation events induce accounting conservatism, extend prior studies examining the disclosure effects of litigation into the accounting choice effects of litigation.

Keywords: Litigation, Conservatism, Network externalities, Peer firm, FASB

JEL Classification: K22, G14, G18, G20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Mark and Pierce, Spencer and Heflin, Frank and Moon, James, Post-litigation reporting conservatism (July 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2972155 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2972155
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , M D Kimbrough
The effect of legal environment on voluntary disclosure: Evidence from management earnings forecasts issued in US and Canadian markets
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 25 - 50 Posted: 2002
R Ball , S P Kothari , V V Nikolaev
On estimating conditional conservatism
The Accounting Review , volume 88 , issue 3 , p. 755 - 787 Posted: 2013
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
M E Barth , W R Landsman , V Raval , S Wang
Conservatism and the information content of earnings Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,312
RANK
469,965
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies