Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cadbury and a Road Not Taken: Contestation Over Board Design and Development of UK Corporate Governance

41 Pages Posted: 23 May 2017

Donald Nordberg

Bournemouth University - Business School

Date Written: May 23, 2017

Abstract

Since 1992, UK corporate governance has been guided by an evolving code of practice. This paper examines the debates during codification and revision, focusing on one issue, board design, and through a close reading of contributions to consultations, it shows the process had three outcomes: It valorised and institutionalised concerns of corporations and investors, but in ways legitimated disparate views and actors. It thus suppressed competing logics, but in ways that allowed them to resurface later. However, over time it failed to engage emerging voices in a rapidly changing market context, raising questions over its likelihood to retain legitimacy.

Keywords: Corporate governance, boards of directors, codes of conduct, UK, institutional logics, legitimacy

JEL Classification: M1, M48, N2

Suggested Citation:

Nordberg, Donald, Cadbury and a Road Not Taken: Contestation Over Board Design and Development of UK Corporate Governance (May 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2972545 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2972545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
Committee: A History
Llewellyn Bruni
The failure of Northern Rock: A multi-dimensional case study. FCA and PRA, The Failure of HBOS plc, FSA, The Failure of the Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Ocasio
Attention to Attention
Crossref
Cadbury
The Financial Aspects of Corporate Governance. The work is made up of the code (two pages of principles) and a report providing justifications for its recommendations
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,684
RANK
342,507
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies