Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Flexibility: Slippery Slope to Fraud?

11 Pages Posted: 25 May 2017

Clement Ajekwe

Benue State University

Date Written: May 23, 2017

Abstract

The paper explores the idea that earnings fraud follows a slippery slope wherein companies manage earnings “legitimately” to achieve pre-determined targets, then aggressively in an effort to achieve the desired results; if the desired results are still not achieved, then, the only option open is to “cook the books” by falsifying documents. Four illustrative cases of fraudulent companies were analysed qualitatively to assess how the slope of earnings management was slippery; and over time earnings management became fraud. The outcomes are that whenever there is a need to meet internal or external earnings expectations, conceal the company’s deteriorating financial condition, increase the stock price or increase management compensation based on financial results; flexibility in accounting standards have provided an opportunity to manage earnings legitimately, aggressively and then fraudulently. While flexibility in accounting is sacrosanct; it is recommended that managers be mindful that the slope of earnings management could be slippery enough to lead to fraud; they should therefore be mindful of those repetitive “small indiscretions”. If possible, managers should address those small deceptive acts; they should clearly delineate what is allowed and what is absolutely forbidden. Furthermore, managers should ensure that governance mechanisms and codes of conduct and ethics of corporations are adhered to and rigorously enforced.

Keywords: accounting flexibility, slippery slope, earnings management, earnings fraud

JEL Classification: M40 M41 M42

Suggested Citation:

Ajekwe, Clement, Accounting Flexibility: Slippery Slope to Fraud? (May 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2972726 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2972726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
A B Amar , E Abaoub
Earnings management thresholds: The case of Tunisia
Asian Academy of Management Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 35 - 56 Posted: 2010
S Arjoon
Slippery when wet: The real risk in business
Journal of Marketing and Morality , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 91 Posted: 2008
T Baker , D Collins , A Reitenga
Stock option compensation and earnings management incentives
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 557 - 582 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Balsam
Discretionary accounting choices and CEO compensation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 229 - 252 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
727
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,797
RANK
80,584
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies