Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory Compensation Limits and Business Performance – Evidence from the National Football League

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2017-06

37 Pages Posted: 24 May 2017

Matthias Petutschnig

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: May 2017

Abstract

Executives’ compensation has been on the forefront of the public and political debate since the recent financial crisis. One of the measures publicly discussed is a general upper boundary to top management compensation packages (“salary cap”, “maximum wage”). While such measures are novelties to the corporate world, the North American major sports leagues have been using maximum compensation regulations for decades. This paper exploits the 23-year experience with salary cap regulations from the National Football League (NFL). The results show a significant negative relation between the success of NFL teams and the amount of the net (after-tax) salary cap represented by the personal income tax rate of the teams’ home states. A team from California (highest average tax rate) wins 2.256 games less per year and has an 11% reduced probability of making the playoffs than a team located in a no-tax state such as Florida or Texas. The paper contributes to and informs the ongoing public and political debate regarding the regulation of executive compensation, and its effects on the performance of the regulated entities.

Keywords: CEO, Compensation, Executive, Maximum Wage, Tax

JEL Classification: M12, M52, H24, H71, J33

Suggested Citation:

Petutschnig, Matthias, Regulatory Compensation Limits and Business Performance – Evidence from the National Football League (May 2017). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2017-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2972655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2972655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
M M Abudy , E Shust
How Investors Respond to a Mandatory Maximum CEOEmployee Pay Ratio? Evidence from Unique Legislation Posted: 2016
Crossref
J Alm , W H Kaempfer , E Batte , Sennoga
Baseball Salaries and Income Taxes
Journal of Sports Economics , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 619 - 634 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S Balsam , J Y Qin
Explaining firm willingness to forfeit tax deductions under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m): The million-dollar cap
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , issue 4 , p. 300 - 324 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Balsam , D H Ryan
Response to tax law changes involving the deductibility of executive compensation: A model explaining corporate behavior
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 18 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 1996
Load more
1 Citations
Mike Dignetti
The Jock Tax: How the National Football League Can Level the Playing Field
16 Pages · Posted: 30 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 253
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,680
RANK
336,212
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies