Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Acquisition Announcements and Stock Market Valuations of Acquiring Firms' Rivals: A Test of the Growth Probability Hypothesis in China

Strategic Management Journal, Volume 34, Issue 2, Pages 215–232, February 2013 DOI:10.1002/smj.2009

Posted: 26 May 2017

Ajai Gaur

Rutgers Business School - Newark and New Brunswick

Shavin Malhotra

University of Waterloo

PengCheng Zhu

University of San Diego

Date Written: July 22, 2012

Abstract

To examine the impact of acquisition announcements on the stock market returns of rivals of the acquiring firms, we propose a growth probability hypothesis: when an acquisition is announced, it signals the potential for future growth in the acquirer's industry to the market, resulting in positive stock market reactions to rivals of the acquiring firms. We test the growth probability hypothesis with a longitudinal sample of Chinese domestic and cross-border acquisitions during 1993–2008. The results provide robust support for this hypothesis as a means to explain market reactions to rivals of acquiring firms. We also empirically test and negate alternative theoretical explanations advanced in prior literature to explain positive market reactions to rivals of the target firms.

Keywords: Growth Probability Hypothesis, Acquisitions, Rival Firms, Stock Market Returns, China

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Gaur, Ajai S. and Malhotra, Shavin and Zhu, Phil, Acquisition Announcements and Stock Market Valuations of Acquiring Firms' Rivals: A Test of the Growth Probability Hypothesis in China (July 22, 2012). Strategic Management Journal, Volume 34, Issue 2, Pages 215–232, February 2013 DOI:10.1002/smj.2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2973687
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies