Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Religion and Corporate Accounting Conservatism

Posted: 1 Jun 2017

Shengquan Hao

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU)

Wen Li

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Antai College of Economics and Management

Guifeng Shi

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU)

Date Written: May 27, 2017

Abstract

This paper studies how religion influences corporate accounting conservatism choice. Accounting conservatism is a mechanism to reduce the agency costs between the corporate insiders and outsiders. Religion potentially impacts firms’ accounting conservatism choice in two contradictory ways. On one hand, religion calls for risk aversion, which predicts that religion would enhance corporate accounting conservatism. On the other hand, religion, as a social norm, potentially impacts firms’ accounting conservatism choice by reducing the contracting demands for accounting conservatism. In this paper, we empirically find that: 1) the local religiosity of the headquarters of the firms is negatively correlated with the firms’ accounting conservatism measures; and 2) the negative correlation between religion and accounting conservatism is more pronounced for firms with higher leverage and higher earnings-based compensations. Our results are robust to alternative model specifications, and different conservatism and religious adherence measures. Our study highlights the important role of social norms in corporate accounting choices.

Keywords: Religion; Accounting Conservatism; Debt Contracting; Compensation Contracting

JEL Classification: M41; Z10; D82

Suggested Citation:

Hao, Shengquan and Li, Wen and Shi, Guifeng, Religion and Corporate Accounting Conservatism (May 27, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2975686
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,820
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies