Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Human Resources Accounting on Corporate Valuation of Banks Listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange

Okoye, PVC, Okoye JN & Amahalu, NN (2015). The Impact of Human Resources Accounting on Corporate Valuation of Banks Listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. 2(1), 182-210

35 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2017

Pius Vincent Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Janefrances Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka, Students

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 31, 2015

Abstract

This study examined the impact of Human Resource Accounting (HRA) on corporate valuation of banks quoted on the Nigeria Stock Exchange.The study made use of secondary data obtained from the annual reports and accounts of the selected banks under study. The relevant data were subjected to statistical analysis. Correlation coefficient, analysis of variance (ANOVA) and regression analysis were employed to analyse the data collected and to test three hypotheses formulated. The result of the study revealed that there is a apositive and significant relationship between human resource accounting and corporate valuation in the banking sector. It was also empirically verified that the inclusion of human resource capital value in the statement of financial position of companies would help in investment and employment decisions of management. The researchers recommended that financial regulatory bodies such as International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN), Nigeria Stock Exchnage (NSE), Stock EXchange Commission (SEC), et cetera, should put in place policies to effect the inclusion of human reources capital value in the financial reports of NIgerian companies.

Keywords: human resource accounting, Corporate Valuation, Banking Sector

JEL Classification: M40, M52

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Pius Vincent and Okoye, Janefrances and Amahalu, Nestor, The Impact of Human Resources Accounting on Corporate Valuation of Banks Listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (August 31, 2015). Okoye, PVC, Okoye JN & Amahalu, NN (2015). The Impact of Human Resources Accounting on Corporate Valuation of Banks Listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. 2(1), 182-210, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2976520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,622
RANK
254,445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies