Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deceiving Two Masters: The Effects of Labor Market Incentives on Reporting Bias and Market Efficiency

AAA 2018 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting

60 Pages Posted: 31 May 2017 Last revised: 13 Jul 2022

Miró Feller

University of Zurich

Ulrich Schäfer

University of Vienna

Date Written: July 12, 2022

Abstract

We study managers’ decisions to bias financial reports that are used not only in capital markets but also in labor markets. Managers manipulate reports to influence the labor market assessment of their talents. This manipulation introduces noise in financial reports and reduces their usefulness for capital markets. We study the determinants of price informativeness and expected reporting bias as two measures of capital market efficiency and develop novel predictions. For instance, higher uncertainty about firm fundamentals can decrease earnings response coefficients if the uncertainty is related to managers’ unknown talents. Supplemental disclosures on managerial talent help mitigate the detrimental effects of managers’ labor market incentives. We find that such disclosures may become more useful if they are increasingly susceptible to manipulation.

Keywords: reporting bias, labor markets, multiple audience, market efficiency

JEL Classification: G14, J24, M12

Suggested Citation:

Feller, Miró and Schäfer, Ulrich, Deceiving Two Masters: The Effects of Labor Market Incentives on Reporting Bias and Market Efficiency (July 12, 2022). AAA 2018 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2976423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2976423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 14 - 18 Posted: 2000
C Aghamolla , C Corona , R Zheng
No reliance on guidance: Counter-signaling in management forecasts
RAND Journal of Economics , volume 52 , issue 1 , p. 207 - 245 Posted: 2021
A Ali , N Li , W Zhang
Restrictions on managers' outside employment opportunities and asymmetric disclosure of bad versus good news
The Accounting Review , volume 94 , issue 5 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2019
E Amir , E Einhorn , I Kama
The role of accounting disaggregation in detecting and mitigating earnings management
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 68 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
350
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,767
RANK
195,765
2 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies