Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility and Taxation: A Chance to Develop the Theory

39 W. New Eng. L. Rev. 539 (2017)

17 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2017 Last revised: 30 Apr 2025

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 30, 2017

Abstract

With increased technology and access to information, corporations have evolved in order to reflect the concept of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in their global business strategies. Some companies, such as Starbucks Corporation, have taken this concept a step further and chose to voluntarily pay additional taxes in order to appease the public. This article discusses some of the conclusions and further steps that should be taken with regards to CSR and initiatives of responsible tax planning, in order to improve harmful tax practices.

Keywords: Tax, Corporate Tax, Tax Policy, International Tax, Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR, ESG

JEL Classification: K3, K30, K34, M1, M10, M14

Suggested Citation:

Narotzki, Doron, Corporate Social Responsibility and Taxation: A Chance to Develop the Theory (May 30, 2017). 39 W. New Eng. L. Rev. 539 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2977618
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
See Reuven , S Avi-Yonah
The Cyclical Transformations of the Corporate Form: A Historical Perspective on Corporate Social Responsibility, 30 DEL
J. CORP. L , volume 767 Posted: 2005
C Michael , Jensen , C Michael , H Jensen &amp; William , Meckling
The Illusion of Law: The Legitimating Schemas of Modern Policy and Corporate Law, 103 MICH
Value Maximization, Stakeholder Theory, and the Corporate Objective Function , volume 12 Posted: 1976
Michael J Phillips
Reappraising the Real Entity Theory of the Corporation, 21 FLA Posted: 1994
C A Wells
The Cycles of Corporate Social Responsibility: An Historical Retrospective for the Twenty-First Century Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,774
RANK
115,900
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies