Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Enforcement Consequences – Evidence from Germany

53 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2017 Last revised: 7 Aug 2018

Christian Laschewski

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Julia Nasev

Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich

Date Written: August 2017

Abstract

In 2006 Germany passed a disclosure enforcement law (EHUG) that strengthened the enforcement of financial statement disclosure in particular for non-listed firms whose compliance before the law was just about 16%. After introducing recurring fines of €2,500 to €25,000 disclosure rates surged to above 90%. We examine why most firms did not disclose prior to the law and potential unintended consequences of forcing firms to disclose. While conventional databases contain information of only disclosing firms (compliers), we use proprietary data from the Deutsche Bundesbank (German Central Bank) covering financial statements of compliers, non-compliers and non-disclosers (firms exempt from disclosure). Our evidence suggests that disclosure rates before the law were low not because firms were indifferent about disclosure but because they were minimizing disclosure related costs. In addition, using compliers and non-disclosers as control groups, in difference-in-difference as well as regression discontinuity analyses, we document that despite the absence of disclosure quality enforcement, non-compliers did not significantly reduce financial reporting quality after they were forced to comply. They also were not more likely to manage asset size/legal form to avoid disclosure. The only evidence we find consistent with efforts to reduce disclosure costs is that after the law, non-compliers were more likely to manage their size/legal form to avoid disclosing income statements. Overall, we document that the law increased disclosure quantity without significantly reducing disclosure quality and having relatively modest unintended consequences related to disclosure avoidance.

Keywords: disclosure enforcement, EHUG, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Laschewski, Christian and Nasev, Julia, Disclosure Enforcement Consequences – Evidence from Germany (August 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2977888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2977888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,969
RANK
334,632
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies