Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Allocation of Responsibility between CEO and CFO for Financial Misreporting: Implications for Earnings Quality

30 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2017

Viktoria Diser

LMU Munich

Ulrich Schäfer

University of Vienna

Date Written: May 31, 2017

Abstract

Even though financial reporting primarily falls within the scope of the CFO responsibilities, there is considerable evidence for the CEO’s influence on corporate misreporting. Regulatory initiatives such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have therefore increased the CEO’s responsibility in the preparation of financial statements and made CEOs partially accountable for misreporting by their subordinates. We analyze the allocation of responsibility between the CEO and the CFO in a theoretical model and highlight their implications for earnings quality. While increasing the CFO’s responsibility generally improves earnings quality, assigning higher responsibility to the CEO may have detrimental effects. Our results show that higher CEO responsibility is particularly beneficial if the CEO has superior information about the CFO’s (financial and non-financial) reporting objectives. Furthermore, the responsibilities of the CEO and the CFO are substitutive regulatory instruments: Regulators should only increase CEO responsibility if CFOs cannot be held responsible for their own misreporting decisions.

Keywords: Earnings management, Reporting bias, CEO responsibility, Earnings quality

JEL Classification: G14, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Diser, Viktoria and Schäfer, Ulrich, The Allocation of Responsibility between CEO and CFO for Financial Misreporting: Implications for Earnings Quality (May 31, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2978195 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2978195
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Burns , Kedia
The Impact of Performance-based Compensation on Misreporting
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 67 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Judson Caskey , Venky Nagar , And Paolo Petacchi
Reporting Bias with an Audit Committee
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 2 , p. 447 - 481 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Hsihui Chang , Jengfang Chen , Woody M Liao , Birendra K , Mishra
Posted: 2006
Crossref
&apos;/ Ceos , Cfos
Swearing by the Numbers: Does It Impact Share Price of the Firm?
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,628
RANK
331,544
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies