Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Coverage and Firm Financial Reporting Quality

Posted: 31 May 2017

Deqiu Chen

University of International Business and Economics

Xiumin Martin

Washington University in Saint Louis - Olin School of Business

Xinmin Zhang

University of International Business and Economics (UIBE) - Business School

Date Written: May 31, 2017

Abstract

It is challenging to study the effect of media coverage on firm financial reporting quality due to simultaneous factors that might affect both. Using a novel setting of high speed railway (HSR) openings as shocks to media coverage, we find a significant increase in media coverage when a new HSR connects both the firm and media. This effect is more pronounced for smaller firms and firms located in less developed regions. Next, we find an increase in firm financial reporting quality following the opening of a HSR connecting the firm and media. This change is positively associated with the change in media coverage following the event. Finally, our results are robust to an IV estimation instrumenting whether a firm or media is located on a HSR. Taken together, our evidence suggests that media coverage improves firms’ financial reporting quality.

Keywords: media coverage, financial reporting quality, high speed rail

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Deqiu and Martin, Xiumin and Zhang, Xinmin, Media Coverage and Firm Financial Reporting Quality (May 31, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2978064
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,234
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies