Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Auditor Qualifications on Earnings Management of Companies Listed in Borsa İstanbul Industrial Index

Can, G. (2019). The impact of auditor qualifications on earnings management of companies listed on the Borsa Istanbul industrial index. Business and Economics Research Journal, 10(2), 373-390. doi: 10.20409/berj.2019.174

Posted: 6 Jun 2017 Last revised: 14 Nov 2019

Gökberk Can

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

Date Written: April 1, 2019

Abstract

This research aims to reveal whether independent auditor’s (as the real person and the legal entity) qualifications (audit firm size, audit opinion, audit gender, audit firm specialization, audit firm rotation, geographical difference) have any effect on earnings management via discretionary accruals and real activities manipulations by using a panel data regression analyses of 162 units over 5 years (2011-2015). According to the results, independent auditor qualifications (audit firm and engagement partner) has no impact on the real activities manipulation. The results show that an independent audit by Big-4 firms has a decreasing effect on discretionary accruals. Earnings management via discretionary accruals increases when the local audit firms conduct the audit. The audit firms with diversified expertise decrease the earnings management via accruals. The results also confirm that disclaimer of opinion signals an increase in the discretionary accruals in Borsa İstanbul.


Keywords: Independent Audit, Discretionary Accruals, Business Activity Manipulation, Earnings Management, Manufacturing Companies, Panel Data Analysis

JEL Classification: C23, M42, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Can, Gökberk, The Impact of Auditor Qualifications on Earnings Management of Companies Listed in Borsa İstanbul Industrial Index (April 1, 2019). Can, G. (2019). The impact of auditor qualifications on earnings management of companies listed on the Borsa Istanbul industrial index. Business and Economics Research Journal, 10(2), 373-390. doi: 10.20409/berj.2019.174, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2978607 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2978607
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,240
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies