Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chapter 5: Corporate Executives, Directors, and Boards

Financial Behavior: Players, Services, Products, and Markets. H. Kent Baker, Greg Filbeck, and Victor Ricciardi, editors, 79-96, New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2017.

Posted: 5 Jun 2017 Last revised: 6 Jun 2017

John R. Nofsinger

University of Alaska Anchorage

Pattanaporn Chatjuthamard

Sasin GIBA

Date Written: June 1, 2017

Abstract

This chapter assesses the behavior of corporate managers and boards of directors within the framework of agency theory, stewardship theory, and psychological biases. In agency theory, a chief executive officer (CEO) is motivated to act in his or her own best interests rather than those of shareholders. Stewardship theory posits that a CEO is a self-actualizing individual seeking to grow and reach a higher level of achievement through leading an organization. A CEO exhibits self-interested behavior in managing the firm. The CEO also exhibits optimism, overconfidence, and risk-aversion behaviors that are not optimal for the company. In the context of agency theory, the board of directors should enact incentive structures and monitoring to control these behaviors. However, directors also suffer from self-interests and cognitive biases. Specifically, boards may suffer from group-dynamic problems such as social loafing, poor information sharing, and group-think.

Keywords: behavioral finance, behavioural finance, board of directors, chief executive officers, agency theory, stewardship theory, overconfidence, optimism, risk aversion, cognitive biases

JEL Classification: A12, D81, G00, G30, G10, M00, M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nofsinger, John R. and Chatjuthamard, Pattanaporn, Chapter 5: Corporate Executives, Directors, and Boards (June 1, 2017). Financial Behavior: Players, Services, Products, and Markets. H. Kent Baker, Greg Filbeck, and Victor Ricciardi, editors, 79-96, New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2017., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2979338
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,482
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies