Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Uncertainty, Investment, and the Cost of Capital

Journal of Financial Stability

59 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2017 Last revised: 7 Mar 2023

Wolfgang Drobetz

University of Hamburg

Sadok El Ghoul

University of Alberta - Campus Saint-Jean

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Malte Janzen

University of Hamburg

Date Written: October 5, 2017

Abstract

We examine the effect of economic policy uncertainty on the relation between investment and the cost of capital. Using the news-based index developed by Baker, Bloom, and Davis (2016) for twenty-one countries, we find that the strength of the negative relation between investment and the cost of capital decreases during times of high economic policy uncertainty. An increase in policy uncertainty reduces the sensitivity of investment to the cost of capital most for firms operating in industries that depend strongly on government subsidies and government consumption as well as in countries with high state ownership. Consistent with the price informativeness channel, we find that an increase in policy uncertainty reduces the investment-cost of capital sensitivity for firms from more opaque countries, firms with low analyst coverage, firms with no credit rating, and small firms. We conclude that economic policy uncertainty distorts the fundamental relation between investment and the cost of capital.

Keywords: Economic Uncertainty, Policy Uncertainty, Investment, Cost of Capital

JEL Classification: P16, G32

Suggested Citation:

Drobetz, Wolfgang and El Ghoul, Sadok and Guedhami, Omrane and Janzen, Malte, Policy Uncertainty, Investment, and the Cost of Capital (October 5, 2017). Journal of Financial Stability, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2980918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2980918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
A B Abel , O J Blanchard
The present value of profits and cyclical movements in investment
Econometrica , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 249 - 273 Posted: 1986
P Akey , S Lewellen
Policy uncertainty, political capital, and firm risk-taking Posted: 2017
H Almeida , M Campello , M S Weisbach
Corporate financial and investment policies when future financing is not frictionless
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 675 - 693 Posted: 2011
S Arif , N Marshall , T L Yohn
Understanding the relation between accruals and volatility: A real options-based investment approach
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 86 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
808
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,487
RANK
70,075
53 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies